tap-gui/configurator/running.hbs.md, before:

# Running your Customized Tanzu Developer Portal

At this stage, you should have completed the building of your customized Tanzu Developer Portal
image in the [previous](building.hbs.md) section.

After the build has completed successfully you need to retrieve the image reference of the built
portal. You then use that and perform a [`ytt`](https://carvel.dev/ytt/) overlay to substitute that
image name for the one running the pre-built Tanzu Developer Portal on your cluster.

## <a id=identify></a>Identifying the Customized Image Reference

You'll need to identify the image that was built by the supply chain. You'll be using this image reference in your [`ytt`](https://carvel.dev/ytt/) overlay in the next step. There are multiple ways to retrieve this image name. Here we show how to retrieve that with either the CLI or the Developer Portal UI.

### Option 1: Through the Kubernetes CLI

```bash
kubectl -n DEVELOPER-NAMESPACE get images.kpack.io WORKLOAD-NAME -o jsonpath={.status.latestImage}
```

Where:

- `DEVELOPER-NAMESPACE` is the configured developer namespace on the cluster where you ran the workload.
- `WORKLOAD-NAME` is the name of the workload you used.

For example:

```bash
> kubectl -n default get images.kpack.io tpb-workload -o jsonpath={.status.latestImage}
> kapplegate.azurecr.io/demo/workloads/tpb-workload-default@sha256:bae710386f7d81a725ce5ab15d76a3dd4f6ea79804ae0a475cf98f5e3dd6cf82
```

### Option 2: Through the Tanzu Developer Portal GUI

1. Find your workload in the Supply Chain view.
   ![Supply Chain Plugin](./images/supply-chain-plugin.png)
2. Fine the Artifact Detail for the Image Provider step. You'll see the Image value located there.
   ![Supply Chain Plugin Artufact Detail](./images/supply-chain-artifact.png)

## Preparing to overlay your customized image onto the currently running instance

### Create the [`ytt`](https://carvel.dev/ytt/) overlay secret

Create a file called `tdp-overlay-secret.yaml` with the following contents:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: tpb-app-image-overlay-secret
  namespace: tap-install
stringData:
  tpb-app-image-overlay.yaml: |
    #@ load("@ytt:overlay", "overlay")
​
    #! makes an assumption that tap-gui is deployed in the namespace: "tap-gui"
    #@overlay/match by=overlay.subset({"kind": "Deployment", "metadata": {"name": "server", "namespace": "tap-gui"}}), expects="1+"
    ---
    spec:
      template:
        spec:
          containers:
            #@overlay/match by=overlay.subset({"name": "backstage"}),expects="1+"
            #@overlay/match-child-defaults missing_ok=True
            - image: IMAGE-REFERENCE        
            #@overlay/replace
              args:
              - -c
              - |
                export KUBERNETES_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_TOKEN="$(cat /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token)"
                exec /layers/tanzu-buildpacks_node-engine-lite/node/bin/node portal/dist/packages/backend  \
                --config=portal/app-config.yaml \
                --config=portal/runtime-config.yaml \
                --config=portal/app-config.pack.yaml \
                --config=/etc/app-config/app-config.yaml
              #@overlay/replace
              ports:
                - containerPort: 7007
              #@overlay/replace
              livenessProbe:
                httpGet:
                  port: 7007
              #@overlay/replace
              readinessProbe:
                httpGet:
                  port: 7007
    
    #@ load("@ytt:overlay", "overlay")
    #@overlay/match by=overlay.subset({"kind": "Service", "metadata": {"name": "server", "namespace": "tap-gui"}}), expects="1+"
    ---
    spec:
    #@overlay/replace
      ports:
      - protocol: TCP
        targetPort: 7007
        port: 7000
```
Where:

- `IMAGE-REFERENCE` is the customized image you retrived during the [previous steps](#identify)


### Apply the secret

Using the `kubectl` CLI, you can apply the above secret:

```bash
kubectl apply -f tdp-overlay-secret.yaml
```


### Add the secret to your `tap-values.yaml`

Here you'll need to modify the `tap-values.yaml` file you used to install Tanzu Application Platform. Update your values file with the following:

```yaml
profile: full
tap_gui:
  ...
package_overlays:
- name: tap-gui
  secrets:
  - name: tpb-app-image-overlay-secret
```

Depending on your installation method (GitOps or Online/Offline install) you'll need to then update your installation to use this modified values file. For example, the steps for doing this in an online installation are [here](../../install-online/profile.hbs.md#install-your-tanzu-application-platform-package).

Commit message:

[TAAP-1399] Add formerly known text to many topics

tap-gui/configurator/running.hbs.md, after:

# Running your Customized Tanzu Developer Portal

At this stage, you should have completed the building of your customized Tanzu Developer Portal
(formerly named Tanzu Application Platform GUI) image in the [previous](building.hbs.md) section.

After the build has completed successfully you need to retrieve the image reference of the built
portal. You then use that and perform a [`ytt`](https://carvel.dev/ytt/) overlay to substitute that
image name for the one running the pre-built Tanzu Developer Portal on your cluster.

## <a id=identify></a>Identifying the Customized Image Reference

You'll need to identify the image that was built by the supply chain. You'll be using this image reference in your [`ytt`](https://carvel.dev/ytt/) overlay in the next step. There are multiple ways to retrieve this image name. Here we show how to retrieve that with either the CLI or the Developer Portal UI.

### Option 1: Through the Kubernetes CLI

```bash
kubectl -n DEVELOPER-NAMESPACE get images.kpack.io WORKLOAD-NAME -o jsonpath={.status.latestImage}
```

Where:

- `DEVELOPER-NAMESPACE` is the configured developer namespace on the cluster where you ran the workload.
- `WORKLOAD-NAME` is the name of the workload you used.

For example:

```bash
> kubectl -n default get images.kpack.io tpb-workload -o jsonpath={.status.latestImage}
> kapplegate.azurecr.io/demo/workloads/tpb-workload-default@sha256:bae710386f7d81a725ce5ab15d76a3dd4f6ea79804ae0a475cf98f5e3dd6cf82
```

### Option 2: Through the Tanzu Developer Portal GUI

1. Find your workload in the Supply Chain view.
   ![Supply Chain Plugin](./images/supply-chain-plugin.png)
2. Fine the Artifact Detail for the Image Provider step. You'll see the Image value located there.
   ![Supply Chain Plugin Artufact Detail](./images/supply-chain-artifact.png)

## Preparing to overlay your customized image onto the currently running instance

### Create the [`ytt`](https://carvel.dev/ytt/) overlay secret

Create a file called `tdp-overlay-secret.yaml` with the following contents:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: tpb-app-image-overlay-secret
  namespace: tap-install
stringData:
  tpb-app-image-overlay.yaml: |
    #@ load("@ytt:overlay", "overlay")
​
    #! makes an assumption that tap-gui is deployed in the namespace: "tap-gui"
    #@overlay/match by=overlay.subset({"kind": "Deployment", "metadata": {"name": "server", "namespace": "tap-gui"}}), expects="1+"
    ---
    spec:
      template:
        spec:
          containers:
            #@overlay/match by=overlay.subset({"name": "backstage"}),expects="1+"
            #@overlay/match-child-defaults missing_ok=True
            - image: IMAGE-REFERENCE
            #@overlay/replace
              args:
              - -c
              - |
                export KUBERNETES_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_TOKEN="$(cat /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token)"
                exec /layers/tanzu-buildpacks_node-engine-lite/node/bin/node portal/dist/packages/backend  \
                --config=portal/app-config.yaml \
                --config=portal/runtime-config.yaml \
                --config=portal/app-config.pack.yaml \
                --config=/etc/app-config/app-config.yaml
              #@overlay/replace
              ports:
                - containerPort: 7007
              #@overlay/replace
              livenessProbe:
                httpGet:
                  port: 7007
              #@overlay/replace
              readinessProbe:
                httpGet:
                  port: 7007

    #@ load("@ytt:overlay", "overlay")
    #@overlay/match by=overlay.subset({"kind": "Service", "metadata": {"name": "server", "namespace": "tap-gui"}}), expects="1+"
    ---
    spec:
    #@overlay/replace
      ports:
      - protocol: TCP
        targetPort: 7007
        port: 7000
```
Where:

- `IMAGE-REFERENCE` is the customized image you retrived during the [previous steps](#identify)


### Apply the secret

Using the `kubectl` CLI, you can apply the above secret:

```bash
kubectl apply -f tdp-overlay-secret.yaml
```


### Add the secret to your `tap-values.yaml`

Here you'll need to modify the `tap-values.yaml` file you used to install Tanzu Application Platform. Update your values file with the following:

```yaml
profile: full
tap_gui:
  ...
package_overlays:
- name: tap-gui
  secrets:
  - name: tpb-app-image-overlay-secret
```

Depending on your installation method (GitOps or Online/Offline install) you'll need to then update your installation to use this modified values file. For example, the steps for doing this in an online installation are [here](../../install-online/profile.hbs.md#install-your-tanzu-application-platform-package).
