fluxcd-source-controller/install.hbs.md, before:

# Install FluxCD Source Controller

This topic tells you how to install FluxCD Source Controller from the Tanzu Application Platform (commonly known as TAP) package repository.

>**Note** Follow the steps in this topic if you do not want to use a profile to install FluxCD Source Controller.
For more information about profiles, see [Components and installation profiles](../about-package-profiles.hbs.md).

## <a id='sc-prereqs'></a>Prerequisites

Before installing FluxCD Source Controller:

- Complete all prerequisites to install Tanzu Application Platform. For more information, see [Prerequisites](../prerequisites.md).
- Install cert-manager on the cluster. For more information, see [Install cert-manager](../cert-manager/install.hbs.md).

## <a id="Configuration"></a> Configuration

The FluxCD Source Controller package has no configuration values.

##  <a id="installation"></a> Installation

To install FluxCD Source Controller from the Tanzu Application Platform package repository:

1. List version information for the package by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package available list fluxcd.source.controller.tanzu.vmware.com -n tap-install
    ```

    For example:

    ```console
    $ tanzu package available list fluxcd.source.controller.tanzu.vmware.com -n tap-install
        \ Retrieving package versions for fluxcd.source.controller.tanzu.vmware.com...
          NAME                                       VERSION  RELEASED-AT
          fluxcd.source.controller.tanzu.vmware.com  0.16.0   2021-10-27 19:00:00 -0500 -05
    ```

2. Install the package by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package install fluxcd-source-controller -p fluxcd.source.controller.tanzu.vmware.com -v VERSION-NUMBER -n tap-install
    ```

    Where:

    - `VERSION-NUMBER` is the version of the package listed in step 1.

    For example:

    ```console
    tanzu package install fluxcd-source-controller -p fluxcd.source.controller.tanzu.vmware.com -v 0.16.0 -n tap-install
    \ Installing package 'fluxcd.source.controller.tanzu.vmware.com'
    | Getting package metadata for 'fluxcd.source.controller.tanzu.vmware.com'
    | Creating service account 'fluxcd-source-controller-tap-install-sa'
    | Creating cluster admin role 'fluxcd-source-controller-tap-install-cluster-role'
    | Creating cluster role binding 'fluxcd-source-controller-tap-install-cluster-rolebinding'
    | Creating package resource
    - Waiting for 'PackageInstall' reconciliation for 'fluxcd-source-controller'
    | 'PackageInstall' resource install status: Reconciling

      Added installed package 'fluxcd-source-controller'
    ```

    This package creates a new namespace called `flux-system`. This namespace hosts all the elements of fluxcd.

3. Verify the package install by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package installed get fluxcd-source-controller -n tap-install
    ```

    For example:

    ```console
    tanzu package installed get fluxcd-source-controller -n tap-install
    \ Retrieving installation details for fluxcd-source-controller...
    NAME:                    fluxcd-source-controller
    PACKAGE-NAME:            fluxcd.source.controller.tanzu.vmware.com
    PACKAGE-VERSION:         0.16.0
    STATUS:                  Reconcile succeeded
    CONDITIONS:              [{ReconcileSucceeded True  }]
    USEFUL-ERROR-MESSAGE:
    ```

    Verify that `STATUS` is `Reconcile succeeded`.

    ```console
    kubectl get pods -n flux-system
    ```

    For example:

    ```console
    $ kubectl get pods -n flux-system
    NAME                                 READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    source-controller-69859f545d-ll8fj   1/1     Running   0          3m38s
    ```

    Verify that `STATUS` is `Running`.


##  <a id="try-fluxcd-source-controller"></a> Try fluxcd-source-controller

1. Verify the main components of `fluxcd-source-controller` were installed by running:

    ```console
    kubectl get all -n flux-system
    ```

    Expect to see the following outputs or similar:

    ```console
    NAME                                     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    pod/source-controller-7684c85659-2zfxb   1/1     Running   0          40m

    NAME                        TYPE        CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)   AGE
    service/source-controller   ClusterIP   10.108.138.74   <none>        80/TCP    40m

    NAME                                READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
    deployment.apps/source-controller   1/1     1            1           40m

    NAME                                           DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
    replicaset.apps/source-controller-7684c85659   1         1         1       40m
    ```

2. Verify all the CRD were installedby running:

    ```console
    kubectl get crds -n flux-system | grep ".fluxcd.io"
    buckets.source.toolkit.fluxcd.io                         2022-03-07T19:20:14Z
    gitrepositories.source.toolkit.fluxcd.io                 2022-03-07T19:20:14Z
    helmcharts.source.toolkit.fluxcd.io                      2022-03-07T19:20:14Z
    helmrepositories.source.toolkit.fluxcd.io                2022-03-07T19:20:14Z
    ```

    >**Note** You will communicate with `fluxcd-source-controller` through its CRDs.

3. Follow these steps to consume a `GitRepository` object:

    1. Create the following `gitrepository-sample.yaml` file:

        ```console
        apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta1
        kind: GitRepository
        metadata:
          name: gitrepository-sample
        spec:
          interval: 1m
          url: https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples
          ref:
            branch: main
        ```

    2. Apply the created conf:

        ```console
        kubectl apply -f gitrepository-sample.yaml
        gitrepository.source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/gitrepository-sample created
        ```

    3. Verify the git-repository was fetched correctly:

        ```console
        kubectl get GitRepository
        NAME                   URL                                                               READY   STATUS                                                              AGE
        gitrepository-sample   https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples   True    Fetched revision: main/132f4e719209eb10b9485302f8593fc0e680f4fc   4s
        ```

    For more examples, see the samples directory on [fluxcd/source-controller/samples](https://github.com/fluxcd/source-controller/tree/main/config/samples) in GitHub.

##  <a id="documentation"></a> Documentation

For documentation specific to fluxcd-source-controller, see the main repository
[fluxcd/source-controller](https://github.com/fluxcd/source-controller) in GitHub.

Commit message:

Clarify the use of CA certificates in Flux, ESO, and Tekton

fluxcd-source-controller/install.hbs.md, after:

# Install FluxCD Source Controller

This topic tells you how to install FluxCD Source Controller from the Tanzu Application Platform (commonly known as TAP) package repository.

>**Note** Follow the steps in this topic if you do not want to use a profile to install FluxCD Source Controller.
For more information about profiles, see [Components and installation profiles](../about-package-profiles.hbs.md).

## <a id='sc-prereqs'></a>Prerequisites

Before installing FluxCD Source Controller:

- Complete all prerequisites to install Tanzu Application Platform. For more information, see [Prerequisites](../prerequisites.md).
- Install cert-manager on the cluster. For more information, see [Install cert-manager](../cert-manager/install.hbs.md).

## <a id="Configuration"></a> Configuration

The FluxCD Source Controller package has no configuration values.

##  <a id="installation"></a> Installation

To install FluxCD Source Controller from the Tanzu Application Platform package repository:

1. List version information for the package by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package available list fluxcd.source.controller.tanzu.vmware.com -n tap-install
    ```

    For example:

    ```console
    $ tanzu package available list fluxcd.source.controller.tanzu.vmware.com -n tap-install
        \ Retrieving package versions for fluxcd.source.controller.tanzu.vmware.com...
          NAME                                       VERSION  RELEASED-AT
          fluxcd.source.controller.tanzu.vmware.com  0.16.0   2021-10-27 19:00:00 -0500 -05
    ```

2. Install the package by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package install fluxcd-source-controller -p fluxcd.source.controller.tanzu.vmware.com -v VERSION-NUMBER -n tap-install
    ```

    Where:

    - `VERSION-NUMBER` is the version of the package listed in step 1.

    For example:

    ```console
    tanzu package install fluxcd-source-controller -p fluxcd.source.controller.tanzu.vmware.com -v 0.16.0 -n tap-install
    \ Installing package 'fluxcd.source.controller.tanzu.vmware.com'
    | Getting package metadata for 'fluxcd.source.controller.tanzu.vmware.com'
    | Creating service account 'fluxcd-source-controller-tap-install-sa'
    | Creating cluster admin role 'fluxcd-source-controller-tap-install-cluster-role'
    | Creating cluster role binding 'fluxcd-source-controller-tap-install-cluster-rolebinding'
    | Creating package resource
    - Waiting for 'PackageInstall' reconciliation for 'fluxcd-source-controller'
    | 'PackageInstall' resource install status: Reconciling

      Added installed package 'fluxcd-source-controller'
    ```

    This package creates a new namespace called `flux-system`. This namespace hosts all the elements of fluxcd.

3. Verify the package install by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package installed get fluxcd-source-controller -n tap-install
    ```

    For example:

    ```console
    tanzu package installed get fluxcd-source-controller -n tap-install
    \ Retrieving installation details for fluxcd-source-controller...
    NAME:                    fluxcd-source-controller
    PACKAGE-NAME:            fluxcd.source.controller.tanzu.vmware.com
    PACKAGE-VERSION:         0.16.0
    STATUS:                  Reconcile succeeded
    CONDITIONS:              [{ReconcileSucceeded True  }]
    USEFUL-ERROR-MESSAGE:
    ```

    Verify that `STATUS` is `Reconcile succeeded`.

    ```console
    kubectl get pods -n flux-system
    ```

    For example:

    ```console
    $ kubectl get pods -n flux-system
    NAME                                 READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    source-controller-69859f545d-ll8fj   1/1     Running   0          3m38s
    ```

    Verify that `STATUS` is `Running`.


##  <a id="try-fluxcd-source-controller"></a> Try fluxcd-source-controller

1. Verify the main components of `fluxcd-source-controller` were installed by running:

    ```console
    kubectl get all -n flux-system
    ```

    Expect to see the following outputs or similar:

    ```console
    NAME                                     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    pod/source-controller-7684c85659-2zfxb   1/1     Running   0          40m

    NAME                        TYPE        CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)   AGE
    service/source-controller   ClusterIP   10.108.138.74   <none>        80/TCP    40m

    NAME                                READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
    deployment.apps/source-controller   1/1     1            1           40m

    NAME                                           DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
    replicaset.apps/source-controller-7684c85659   1         1         1       40m
    ```

2. Verify all the CRD were installedby running:

    ```console
    kubectl get crds -n flux-system | grep ".fluxcd.io"
    buckets.source.toolkit.fluxcd.io                         2022-03-07T19:20:14Z
    gitrepositories.source.toolkit.fluxcd.io                 2022-03-07T19:20:14Z
    helmcharts.source.toolkit.fluxcd.io                      2022-03-07T19:20:14Z
    helmrepositories.source.toolkit.fluxcd.io                2022-03-07T19:20:14Z
    ```

    >**Note** You will communicate with `fluxcd-source-controller` through its CRDs.

3. If you are using a git repository with a custom CA certificate then you must
   provide this certificate to the FluxCD Source Controller directly by
   including the CA in the service account used by the supply chain.  TAP's
   distribution of FluxCD Source Controller does *not* support TAP's
   `shared.ca_cert_data` field.  For more information on setting the CA in the
   service account see the document
   [Use Git authentication with Supply Chain Choreographer](../scc/git-auth.hbs.md).

4. Follow these steps to consume a `GitRepository` object:

    1. Create the following `gitrepository-sample.yaml` file:

        ```console
        apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta1
        kind: GitRepository
        metadata:
          name: gitrepository-sample
        spec:
          interval: 1m
          url: https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples
          ref:
            branch: main
        ```

    2. Apply the created conf:

        ```console
        kubectl apply -f gitrepository-sample.yaml
        gitrepository.source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/gitrepository-sample created
        ```

    3. Verify the git-repository was fetched correctly:

        ```console
        kubectl get GitRepository
        NAME                   URL                                                               READY   STATUS                                                              AGE
        gitrepository-sample   https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples   True    Fetched revision: main/132f4e719209eb10b9485302f8593fc0e680f4fc   4s
        ```

    For more examples, see the samples directory on [fluxcd/source-controller/samples](https://github.com/fluxcd/source-controller/tree/main/config/samples) in GitHub.

##  <a id="documentation"></a> Documentation

For documentation specific to fluxcd-source-controller, see the main repository
[fluxcd/source-controller](https://github.com/fluxcd/source-controller) in GitHub.
