getting-started/add-test-and-security.hbs.md, before:

# Add testing and scanning to your application

This how-to guide walks you through installing the optional OOTB Supply Chain with Testing and the optional OOTB Supply Chain with Testing and Scanning.

For more information about available supply chains, see [Supply chains on Tanzu Application Platform](about-supply-chains.md).

## <a id="you-will"></a>What you will do

- Install OOTB Supply Chain with Testing.
- Add a Tekton pipeline to the cluster and update the workload to point to the pipeline and resolve errors.
- Install OOTB Supply Chain with Testing and Scanning.
- Update the workload to point to the Tekton pipeline and resolve errors.
- Query for vulnerabilities and dependencies.

## <a id="overview"></a> Overview

The default Out of the Box (OOTB) Supply Chain Basic and its dependencies were installed on your cluster during the Tanzu Application Platform install. As demonstrated in this guide, you can add testing and security scanning to your application.
When you activate OOTB Supply Chain with Testing, it deactivates OOTB Supply Chain Basic.

The following installations also provide a sample Tekton pipeline that tests your sample application. The pipeline is configurable. Therefore, you can customize the steps to perform
either additional testing or other tasks with Tekton Pipelines.

## <a id="install-OOTB-test"></a>Install OOTB Supply Chain with Testing

To install OOTB Supply Chain with Testing:

1. You can activate the OOTB Supply Chain with Testing by updating your profile to use `testing` rather than `basic` as the selected supply chain for workloads in this cluster.
The `tap-values.yaml` is the file used to customize the profile in `Tanzu package install tap
--values-file=...`. Update `tap-values.yaml` with the following changes:

    ```yaml
    - supply_chain: basic
    + supply_chain: testing

    - ootb_supply_chain_basic:
    + ootb_supply_chain_testing:
        registry:
          server: "SERVER-NAME"
          repository: "REPO-NAME"
    ```

    Where:

    - `SERVER-NAME` is the name of your server.
    - `REPO-NAME` is the name of the image repository that hosts the container images.

1. Update the installed profile by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package installed update tap -p tap.tanzu.vmware.com -v VERSION-NUMBER --values-file tap-values.yaml -n tap-install
    ```

    Where `VERSION-NUMBER` is your Tanzu Application Platform version. For example, `{{ vars.tap_version }}`.

### <a id="tekton-config-example"></a>Tekton pipeline config example

In this section, a Tekton pipeline is added to the cluster. In the next section,
the workload is updated to point to the pipeline and resolve any current errors.

>**Note** Developers can perform this step because they know how their application must be tested. The operator can also add the Tekton pipeline to a cluster before the developer gets access.

To add the Tekton pipeline to the cluster, apply the following YAML to the cluster:

```yaml
apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1beta1
kind: Pipeline
metadata:
  name: developer-defined-tekton-pipeline
  labels:
    apps.tanzu.vmware.com/pipeline: test     # (!) required
spec:
  params:
    - name: source-url                       # (!) required
    - name: source-revision                  # (!) required
  tasks:
    - name: test
      params:
        - name: source-url
          value: $(params.source-url)
        - name: source-revision
          value: $(params.source-revision)
      taskSpec:
        params:
          - name: source-url
          - name: source-revision
        steps:
          - name: test
            image: gradle
            script: |-
              cd `mktemp -d`

              wget -qO- $(params.source-url) | tar xvz -m
              ./mvnw test
```

The preceding YAML defines a Tekton pipeline with a single step.
The step contained in the `steps` pulls the code from the repository indicated
in the developers `workload` and runs the tests within the repository. The steps of the Tekton pipeline are configurable and allow the developer to add additional items needed to test their code.

There are many steps in the supply chain. In this case, the next step is an image build. Any additional steps the developer adds to the Tekton pipeline to test their code are independent of the image being built and of any subsequent steps executed in the supply chain. This independence gives the developer freedom to focus on testing their code.

The `params` are templated by Supply Chain Choreographer.
Additionally, Tekton pipelines require a Tekton `pipelineRun` to execute on the cluster.
Supply Chain Choreographer handles creating the `pipelineRun` dynamically each time
that step of the supply chain requires execution.

### <a id="test-workload-update"></a>Workload update

To connect the new supply chain to the workload,
the workload must be updated to point at your Tekton pipeline.

1. Update the workload by running the following with the Tanzu CLI:

    ```console
    tanzu apps workload apply tanzu-java-web-app \
      --git-repo https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples \
      --sub-path tanzu-java-web-app \
      --git-branch main \
      --type web \
      --label apps.tanzu.vmware.com/has-tests=true \
      --label app.kubernetes.io/part-of=tanzu-java-web-app \
      --yes
    ```

    <!-- add example output -->

2. After accepting the workload creation, monitor the creation of new resources by the workload by running:

    ```console
    kubectl get workload,gitrepository,pipelinerun,images.kpack,podintent,app,services.serving
    ```

  The result is output similar to the following example that shows the objects created by Supply Chain Choreographer:

    ```console
    NAME                                    AGE
    workload.carto.run/tanzu-java-web-app   109s

    NAME                                                        URL                                                               READY   STATUS                                                            AGE
    gitrepository.source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/tanzu-java-web-app   https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples   True    Fetched revision: main/872ff44c8866b7805fb2425130edb69a9853bfdf   109s

    NAME                                              SUCCEEDED   REASON      STARTTIME   COMPLETIONTIME
    pipelinerun.tekton.dev/tanzu-java-web-app-4ftlb   True        Succeeded   104s        77s

    NAME                                LATESTIMAGE                                                                                                      READY
    image.kpack.io/tanzu-java-web-app   10.188.0.3:5000/foo/tanzu-java-web-app@sha256:1d5bc4d3d1ffeb8629fbb721fcd1c4d28b896546e005f1efd98fbc4e79b7552c   True

    NAME                                                             READY   REASON   AGE
    podintent.conventions.carto.run/tanzu-java-web-app   True             7s

    NAME                                      DESCRIPTION           SINCE-DEPLOY   AGE
    app.kappctrl.k14s.io/tanzu-java-web-app   Reconcile succeeded   1s             2s

    NAME                                             URL                                               LATESTCREATED              LATESTREADY                READY     REASON
    service.serving.knative.dev/tanzu-java-web-app   http://tanzu-java-web-app.developer.example.com   tanzu-java-web-app-00001   tanzu-java-web-app-00001   Unknown   IngressNotConfigured
    ```

## <a id="install-OOTB-test-scan"></a>Install OOTB Supply Chain with Testing and Scanning

### <a id="prereqs-install-OOTB-test-scan"></a>Prerequisites

- Both the Scan Controller and the default Grype scanner must be installed for scanning. Refer to the verify installation steps later in the topic.

  > **Note** When leveraging both Tanzu Build Service and Grype in your Tanzu Application Platform supply chain, you can receive enhanced scanning coverage for the languages and frameworks with check marks in the column "Extended Scanning Coverage using Anchore Grype" on the [Language and Framework Support Table](../about-package-profiles.hbs.md#language-support).

- Add the necessary configuration to
  [enable CVE scan results in the Tanzu Application Platform GUI](../tap-gui/plugins/scc-tap-gui.hbs.md#scan).
  This configuration allows the Supply Chain Choreographer Tanzu Application Platform GUI plug-in to
  retrieve metadata about project packages and their vulnerabilities.

To install OOTB Supply Chain with Testing and Scanning:

1. Supply Chain Security Tools (SCST) - Scan is installed as part of the Tanzu Application Platform profiles.
Verify that both Scan Controller and Grype Scanner are installed by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package installed get scanning -n tap-install
    tanzu package installed get grype -n tap-install
    ```

    If the packages are not already installed, follow the steps in [Supply Chain Security Tools - Scan](../scst-scan/install-scst-scan.md) to install the required scanning components.

    During installation of the Grype Scanner, sample ScanTemplates are installed into the `default` namespace. If the workload is deployed into another namespace, these sample ScanTemplates must also be present in the other namespace. One way to accomplish this is to install Grype Scanner again and provide the namespace in the values file.

    A ScanPolicy is required and must be in the required namespace. A sample ScanPolicy is provided as follows to block a supply chain when CVEs with critical, high, and unknown ratings are found using `notAllowedSeverities := ["Critical","High","UnknownSeverity"]`. You can also configure the supply chain to use your own custom policies and apply exceptions when you want to ignore certain CVEs. See [Out of the Box Supply Chain with Testing and Scanning](../scc/ootb-supply-chain-testing-scanning.hbs.md#updates-to-developer-namespace). To apply the sample ScanPolicy, you can either add the namespace flag to the kubectl command or add the namespace text box to the template by running:

    ```console
    kubectl apply -f - -o yaml << EOF
    ---
    apiVersion: scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1beta1
    kind: ScanPolicy
    metadata:
      name: scan-policy
      labels:
        'app.kubernetes.io/part-of': 'enable-in-gui'
    spec:
      regoFile: |
        package main

        # Accepted Values: "Critical", "High", "Medium", "Low", "Negligible", "UnknownSeverity"
        notAllowedSeverities := ["Critical", "High", "UnknownSeverity"]
        ignoreCves := []

        contains(array, elem) = true {
          array[_] = elem
        } else = false { true }

        isSafe(match) {
          severities := { e | e := match.ratings.rating.severity } | { e | e := match.ratings.rating[_].severity }
          some i
          fails := contains(notAllowedSeverities, severities[i])
          not fails
        }

        isSafe(match) {
          ignore := contains(ignoreCves, match.id)
          ignore
        }

        deny[msg] {
          comps := { e | e := input.bom.components.component } | { e | e := input.bom.components.component[_] }
          some i
          comp := comps[i]
          vulns := { e | e := comp.vulnerabilities.vulnerability } | { e | e := comp.vulnerabilities.vulnerability[_] }
          some j
          vuln := vulns[j]
          ratings := { e | e := vuln.ratings.rating.severity } | { e | e := vuln.ratings.rating[_].severity }
          not isSafe(vuln)
          msg = sprintf("CVE %s %s %s", [comp.name, vuln.id, ratings])
        }
    EOF
    ```

2. (optional) The Tanzu Application Platform profiles install the [Supply Chain Security Tools - Store](../scst-store/overview.md) package by default. To persist and query the vulnerability results post-scan, confirm it is installed by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package installed get metadata-store -n tap-install
    ```

    If the package is not installed, follow the installation instructions at [Install Supply Chain Security Tools - Store independent from Tanzu Application Platform profiles](../scst-store/install-scst-store.md).


3. Update the profile to use the supply chain with testing and scanning by
   updating `tap-values.yaml` (the file used to customize the profile in `tanzu
   package install tap --values-file=...`) with the following changes:


    ```console
    - supply_chain: testing
    + supply_chain: testing_scanning

    - ootb_supply_chain_testing:
    + ootb_supply_chain_testing_scanning:
        registry:
          server: "<SERVER-NAME>"
          repository: "<REPO-NAME>"
    ```

4. Update the `tap` package:

    ```console
    tanzu package installed update tap -p tap.tanzu.vmware.com -v VERSION-NUMBER --values-file tap-values.yaml -n tap-install
    ```

    Where `VERSION-NUMBER` is your Tanzu Application Platform version. For example, `{{ vars.tap_version }}`.

### <a id="workload-update"></a>Workload update

To connect the new supply chain to the workload, update the workload to point to your Tekton
pipeline:

1. Update the workload by running the following using the Tanzu CLI:

    ```console
    tanzu apps workload apply tanzu-java-web-app \
      --git-repo https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples \
      --sub-path tanzu-java-web-app \
      --git-branch main \
      --type web \
      --label apps.tanzu.vmware.com/has-tests=true \
      --label app.kubernetes.io/part-of=tanzu-java-web-app \
      --yes
    ```

    <!-- add example output -->

1. After accepting the workload creation, view the new resources that the workload created by running:

    ```console
    kubectl get workload,gitrepository,sourcescan,pipelinerun,images.kpack,imagescan,podintent,app,services.serving
    ```

    The following is an example output, which shows the objects that Supply Chain Choreographer created:

    ```console
    NAME                                    AGE
    workload.carto.run/tanzu-java-web-app   109s

    NAME                                                        URL                                                               READY   STATUS                                                            AGE
    gitrepository.source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/tanzu-java-web-app   https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples   True    Fetched revision: main/872ff44c8866b7805fb2425130edb69a9853bfdf   109s

    NAME                                                           PHASE       SCANNEDREVISION                            SCANNEDREPOSITORY                                                 AGE    CRITICAL   HIGH   MEDIUM   LOW   UNKNOWN   CVETOTAL
    sourcescan.scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/tanzu-java-web-app   Completed   187850b39b754e425621340787932759a0838795   https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples   90s

    NAME                                              SUCCEEDED   REASON      STARTTIME   COMPLETIONTIME
    pipelinerun.tekton.dev/tanzu-java-web-app-4ftlb   True        Succeeded   104s        77s

    NAME                                LATESTIMAGE                                                                                                      READY
    image.kpack.io/tanzu-java-web-app   10.188.0.3:5000/foo/tanzu-java-web-app@sha256:1d5bc4d3d1ffeb8629fbb721fcd1c4d28b896546e005f1efd98fbc4e79b7552c   True

    NAME                                                          PHASE       SCANNEDIMAGE                                                                                                AGE   CRITICAL   HIGH   MEDIUM   LOW   UNKNOWN   CVETOTAL
    imagescan.scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/tanzu-java-web-app   Completed   10.188.0.3:5000/foo/tanzu-java-web-app@sha256:1d5bc4d3d1ffeb8629fbb721fcd1c4d28b896546e005f1efd98fbc4e79b7552c   14s

    NAME                                                             READY   REASON   AGE
    podintent.conventions.carto.run/tanzu-java-web-app   True             7s

    NAME                                      DESCRIPTION           SINCE-DEPLOY   AGE
    app.kappctrl.k14s.io/tanzu-java-web-app   Reconcile succeeded   1s             2s

    NAME                                             URL                                               LATESTCREATED              LATESTREADY                READY     REASON
    service.serving.knative.dev/tanzu-java-web-app   http://tanzu-java-web-app.developer.example.com   tanzu-java-web-app-00001   tanzu-java-web-app-00001   Unknown   IngressNotConfigured
    ```

    > **Important** If the source or image scan has a "Failed" phase this means that the scan failed due to a scan policy violation and the supply chain stops. For information about the CVE triage workflow, see [Out of the Box Supply Chain with Testing and Scanning](../scc/ootb-supply-chain-testing-scanning.hbs.md#cve-triage-workflow).

### <a id="query-for-vuln"></a> Query for vulnerabilities

Scan reports are automatically saved to the [Supply Chain Security Tools - Store](../scst-store/overview.md), and you can query them for vulnerabilities and dependencies. For example, related to open-source software (OSS) or third-party packages.

Query the tanzu-java-web-app image dependencies and vulnerabilities by running:

  ```console
    tanzu insight image get --digest DIGEST
    tanzu insight image vulnerabilities --digest  DIGEST
  ```

Where `DIGEST` is the component version or image digest printed in the `KUBECTL GET` command.

For additional information and examples, see [Tanzu Insight plug-in overview](../cli-plugins/insight/cli-overview.md).
<br>

Congratulations! You have successfully added testing and security scanning to your application on the Tanzu Application Platform.

Take the next steps to learn about recommended supply chain security best practices and gain a powerful services journey experience on the Tanzu Application Platform by enabling several advanced use cases.

## Next steps

- [Configure image signing and verification in your supply chain](config-supply-chain.md)

Commit message:

Add opt-in Source Scan note

getting-started/add-test-and-security.hbs.md, after:

# Add testing and scanning to your application

This how-to guide walks you through installing the optional OOTB Supply Chain with Testing and the optional OOTB Supply Chain with Testing and Scanning.

For more information about available supply chains, see [Supply chains on Tanzu Application Platform](about-supply-chains.md).

## <a id="you-will"></a>What you will do

- Install OOTB Supply Chain with Testing.
- Add a Tekton pipeline to the cluster and update the workload to point to the pipeline and resolve errors.
- Install OOTB Supply Chain with Testing and Scanning.
- Update the workload to point to the Tekton pipeline and resolve errors.
- Query for vulnerabilities and dependencies.

## <a id="overview"></a> Overview

The default Out of the Box (OOTB) Supply Chain Basic and its dependencies were installed on your cluster during the Tanzu Application Platform install. As demonstrated in this guide, you can add testing and security scanning to your application.
When you activate OOTB Supply Chain with Testing, it deactivates OOTB Supply Chain Basic.

The following installations also provide a sample Tekton pipeline that tests your sample application. The pipeline is configurable. Therefore, you can customize the steps to perform
either additional testing or other tasks with Tekton Pipelines.

## <a id="install-OOTB-test"></a>Install OOTB Supply Chain with Testing

To install OOTB Supply Chain with Testing:

1. You can activate the OOTB Supply Chain with Testing by updating your profile to use `testing` rather than `basic` as the selected supply chain for workloads in this cluster.
The `tap-values.yaml` is the file used to customize the profile in `Tanzu package install tap
--values-file=...`. Update `tap-values.yaml` with the following changes:

    ```yaml
    - supply_chain: basic
    + supply_chain: testing

    - ootb_supply_chain_basic:
    + ootb_supply_chain_testing:
        registry:
          server: "SERVER-NAME"
          repository: "REPO-NAME"
    ```

    Where:

    - `SERVER-NAME` is the name of your server.
    - `REPO-NAME` is the name of the image repository that hosts the container images.

1. Update the installed profile by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package installed update tap -p tap.tanzu.vmware.com -v VERSION-NUMBER --values-file tap-values.yaml -n tap-install
    ```

    Where `VERSION-NUMBER` is your Tanzu Application Platform version. For example, `{{ vars.tap_version }}`.

### <a id="tekton-config-example"></a>Tekton pipeline config example

In this section, a Tekton pipeline is added to the cluster. In the next section,
the workload is updated to point to the pipeline and resolve any current errors.

>**Note** Developers can perform this step because they know how their application must be tested. The operator can also add the Tekton pipeline to a cluster before the developer gets access.

To add the Tekton pipeline to the cluster, apply the following YAML to the cluster:

```yaml
apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1beta1
kind: Pipeline
metadata:
  name: developer-defined-tekton-pipeline
  labels:
    apps.tanzu.vmware.com/pipeline: test     # (!) required
spec:
  params:
    - name: source-url                       # (!) required
    - name: source-revision                  # (!) required
  tasks:
    - name: test
      params:
        - name: source-url
          value: $(params.source-url)
        - name: source-revision
          value: $(params.source-revision)
      taskSpec:
        params:
          - name: source-url
          - name: source-revision
        steps:
          - name: test
            image: gradle
            script: |-
              cd `mktemp -d`

              wget -qO- $(params.source-url) | tar xvz -m
              ./mvnw test
```

The preceding YAML defines a Tekton pipeline with a single step.
The step contained in the `steps` pulls the code from the repository indicated
in the developers `workload` and runs the tests within the repository. The steps of the Tekton pipeline are configurable and allow the developer to add additional items needed to test their code.

There are many steps in the supply chain. In this case, the next step is an image build. Any additional steps the developer adds to the Tekton pipeline to test their code are independent of the image being built and of any subsequent steps executed in the supply chain. This independence gives the developer freedom to focus on testing their code.

The `params` are templated by Supply Chain Choreographer.
Additionally, Tekton pipelines require a Tekton `pipelineRun` to execute on the cluster.
Supply Chain Choreographer handles creating the `pipelineRun` dynamically each time
that step of the supply chain requires execution.

### <a id="test-workload-update"></a>Workload update

To connect the new supply chain to the workload,
the workload must be updated to point at your Tekton pipeline.

1. Update the workload by running the following with the Tanzu CLI:

    ```console
    tanzu apps workload apply tanzu-java-web-app \
      --git-repo https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples \
      --sub-path tanzu-java-web-app \
      --git-branch main \
      --type web \
      --label apps.tanzu.vmware.com/has-tests=true \
      --label app.kubernetes.io/part-of=tanzu-java-web-app \
      --yes
    ```

    <!-- add example output -->

2. After accepting the workload creation, monitor the creation of new resources by the workload by running:

    ```console
    kubectl get workload,gitrepository,pipelinerun,images.kpack,podintent,app,services.serving
    ```

  The result is output similar to the following example that shows the objects created by Supply Chain Choreographer:

    ```console
    NAME                                    AGE
    workload.carto.run/tanzu-java-web-app   109s

    NAME                                                        URL                                                               READY   STATUS                                                            AGE
    gitrepository.source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/tanzu-java-web-app   https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples   True    Fetched revision: main/872ff44c8866b7805fb2425130edb69a9853bfdf   109s

    NAME                                              SUCCEEDED   REASON      STARTTIME   COMPLETIONTIME
    pipelinerun.tekton.dev/tanzu-java-web-app-4ftlb   True        Succeeded   104s        77s

    NAME                                LATESTIMAGE                                                                                                      READY
    image.kpack.io/tanzu-java-web-app   10.188.0.3:5000/foo/tanzu-java-web-app@sha256:1d5bc4d3d1ffeb8629fbb721fcd1c4d28b896546e005f1efd98fbc4e79b7552c   True

    NAME                                                             READY   REASON   AGE
    podintent.conventions.carto.run/tanzu-java-web-app   True             7s

    NAME                                      DESCRIPTION           SINCE-DEPLOY   AGE
    app.kappctrl.k14s.io/tanzu-java-web-app   Reconcile succeeded   1s             2s

    NAME                                             URL                                               LATESTCREATED              LATESTREADY                READY     REASON
    service.serving.knative.dev/tanzu-java-web-app   http://tanzu-java-web-app.developer.example.com   tanzu-java-web-app-00001   tanzu-java-web-app-00001   Unknown   IngressNotConfigured
    ```

## <a id="install-OOTB-test-scan"></a>Install OOTB Supply Chain with Testing and Scanning

### <a id="prereqs-install-OOTB-test-scan"></a>Prerequisites

- Both the Scan Controller and the default Grype scanner must be installed for scanning. Refer to the verify installation steps later in the topic.

  > **Note** When leveraging both Tanzu Build Service and Grype in your Tanzu Application Platform supply chain, you can receive enhanced scanning coverage for the languages and frameworks with check marks in the column "Extended Scanning Coverage using Anchore Grype" on the [Language and Framework Support Table](../about-package-profiles.hbs.md#language-support).

- Add the necessary configuration to
  [enable CVE scan results in the Tanzu Application Platform GUI](../tap-gui/plugins/scc-tap-gui.hbs.md#scan).
  This configuration allows the Supply Chain Choreographer Tanzu Application Platform GUI plug-in to
  retrieve metadata about project packages and their vulnerabilities.

To install OOTB Supply Chain with Testing and Scanning:

>**Note** In the test and scan supply chain, the source scanning capability has been changed to opt-in and will be skipped by default starting in Tanzu Application Platform 1.6.  See [here](../scst-scan/scan-types.md) for more information.

1. Supply Chain Security Tools (SCST) - Scan is installed as part of the Tanzu Application Platform profiles.
Verify that both Scan Controller and Grype Scanner are installed by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package installed get scanning -n tap-install
    tanzu package installed get grype -n tap-install
    ```

    If the packages are not already installed, follow the steps in [Supply Chain Security Tools - Scan](../scst-scan/install-scst-scan.md) to install the required scanning components.

    During installation of the Grype Scanner, sample ScanTemplates are installed into the `default` namespace. If the workload is deployed into another namespace, these sample ScanTemplates must also be present in the other namespace. One way to accomplish this is to install Grype Scanner again and provide the namespace in the values file.

    A ScanPolicy is required and must be in the required namespace. A sample ScanPolicy is provided as follows to block a supply chain when CVEs with critical, high, and unknown ratings are found using `notAllowedSeverities := ["Critical","High","UnknownSeverity"]`. You can also configure the supply chain to use your own custom policies and apply exceptions when you want to ignore certain CVEs. See [Out of the Box Supply Chain with Testing and Scanning](../scc/ootb-supply-chain-testing-scanning.hbs.md#updates-to-developer-namespace). To apply the sample ScanPolicy, you can either add the namespace flag to the kubectl command or add the namespace text box to the template by running:

    ```console
    kubectl apply -f - -o yaml << EOF
    ---
    apiVersion: scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1beta1
    kind: ScanPolicy
    metadata:
      name: scan-policy
      labels:
        'app.kubernetes.io/part-of': 'enable-in-gui'
    spec:
      regoFile: |
        package main

        # Accepted Values: "Critical", "High", "Medium", "Low", "Negligible", "UnknownSeverity"
        notAllowedSeverities := ["Critical", "High", "UnknownSeverity"]
        ignoreCves := []

        contains(array, elem) = true {
          array[_] = elem
        } else = false { true }

        isSafe(match) {
          severities := { e | e := match.ratings.rating.severity } | { e | e := match.ratings.rating[_].severity }
          some i
          fails := contains(notAllowedSeverities, severities[i])
          not fails
        }

        isSafe(match) {
          ignore := contains(ignoreCves, match.id)
          ignore
        }

        deny[msg] {
          comps := { e | e := input.bom.components.component } | { e | e := input.bom.components.component[_] }
          some i
          comp := comps[i]
          vulns := { e | e := comp.vulnerabilities.vulnerability } | { e | e := comp.vulnerabilities.vulnerability[_] }
          some j
          vuln := vulns[j]
          ratings := { e | e := vuln.ratings.rating.severity } | { e | e := vuln.ratings.rating[_].severity }
          not isSafe(vuln)
          msg = sprintf("CVE %s %s %s", [comp.name, vuln.id, ratings])
        }
    EOF
    ```

2. (optional) The Tanzu Application Platform profiles install the [Supply Chain Security Tools - Store](../scst-store/overview.md) package by default. To persist and query the vulnerability results post-scan, confirm it is installed by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package installed get metadata-store -n tap-install
    ```

    If the package is not installed, follow the installation instructions at [Install Supply Chain Security Tools - Store independent from Tanzu Application Platform profiles](../scst-store/install-scst-store.md).


3. Update the profile to use the supply chain with testing and scanning by
   updating `tap-values.yaml` (the file used to customize the profile in `tanzu
   package install tap --values-file=...`) with the following changes:


    ```console
    - supply_chain: testing
    + supply_chain: testing_scanning

    - ootb_supply_chain_testing:
    + ootb_supply_chain_testing_scanning:
        registry:
          server: "<SERVER-NAME>"
          repository: "<REPO-NAME>"
    ```

4. Update the `tap` package:

    ```console
    tanzu package installed update tap -p tap.tanzu.vmware.com -v VERSION-NUMBER --values-file tap-values.yaml -n tap-install
    ```

    Where `VERSION-NUMBER` is your Tanzu Application Platform version. For example, `{{ vars.tap_version }}`.

### <a id="workload-update"></a>Workload update

To connect the new supply chain to the workload, update the workload to point to your Tekton
pipeline:

1. Update the workload by running the following using the Tanzu CLI:

    ```console
    tanzu apps workload apply tanzu-java-web-app \
      --git-repo https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples \
      --sub-path tanzu-java-web-app \
      --git-branch main \
      --type web \
      --label apps.tanzu.vmware.com/has-tests=true \
      --label app.kubernetes.io/part-of=tanzu-java-web-app \
      --yes
    ```

    <!-- add example output -->

1. After accepting the workload creation, view the new resources that the workload created by running:

    ```console
    kubectl get workload,gitrepository,sourcescan,pipelinerun,images.kpack,imagescan,podintent,app,services.serving
    ```

    The following is an example output, which shows the objects that Supply Chain Choreographer created:

    ```console
    NAME                                    AGE
    workload.carto.run/tanzu-java-web-app   109s

    NAME                                                        URL                                                               READY   STATUS                                                            AGE
    gitrepository.source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/tanzu-java-web-app   https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples   True    Fetched revision: main/872ff44c8866b7805fb2425130edb69a9853bfdf   109s

    NAME                                                           PHASE       SCANNEDREVISION                            SCANNEDREPOSITORY                                                 AGE    CRITICAL   HIGH   MEDIUM   LOW   UNKNOWN   CVETOTAL
    sourcescan.scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/tanzu-java-web-app   Completed   187850b39b754e425621340787932759a0838795   https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples   90s

    NAME                                              SUCCEEDED   REASON      STARTTIME   COMPLETIONTIME
    pipelinerun.tekton.dev/tanzu-java-web-app-4ftlb   True        Succeeded   104s        77s

    NAME                                LATESTIMAGE                                                                                                      READY
    image.kpack.io/tanzu-java-web-app   10.188.0.3:5000/foo/tanzu-java-web-app@sha256:1d5bc4d3d1ffeb8629fbb721fcd1c4d28b896546e005f1efd98fbc4e79b7552c   True

    NAME                                                          PHASE       SCANNEDIMAGE                                                                                                AGE   CRITICAL   HIGH   MEDIUM   LOW   UNKNOWN   CVETOTAL
    imagescan.scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/tanzu-java-web-app   Completed   10.188.0.3:5000/foo/tanzu-java-web-app@sha256:1d5bc4d3d1ffeb8629fbb721fcd1c4d28b896546e005f1efd98fbc4e79b7552c   14s

    NAME                                                             READY   REASON   AGE
    podintent.conventions.carto.run/tanzu-java-web-app   True             7s

    NAME                                      DESCRIPTION           SINCE-DEPLOY   AGE
    app.kappctrl.k14s.io/tanzu-java-web-app   Reconcile succeeded   1s             2s

    NAME                                             URL                                               LATESTCREATED              LATESTREADY                READY     REASON
    service.serving.knative.dev/tanzu-java-web-app   http://tanzu-java-web-app.developer.example.com   tanzu-java-web-app-00001   tanzu-java-web-app-00001   Unknown   IngressNotConfigured
    ```

    > **Important** If the source or image scan has a "Failed" phase this means that the scan failed due to a scan policy violation and the supply chain stops. For information about the CVE triage workflow, see [Out of the Box Supply Chain with Testing and Scanning](../scc/ootb-supply-chain-testing-scanning.hbs.md#cve-triage-workflow).

### <a id="query-for-vuln"></a> Query for vulnerabilities

Scan reports are automatically saved to the [Supply Chain Security Tools - Store](../scst-store/overview.md), and you can query them for vulnerabilities and dependencies. For example, related to open-source software (OSS) or third-party packages.

Query the tanzu-java-web-app image dependencies and vulnerabilities by running:

  ```console
    tanzu insight image get --digest DIGEST
    tanzu insight image vulnerabilities --digest  DIGEST
  ```

Where `DIGEST` is the component version or image digest printed in the `KUBECTL GET` command.

For additional information and examples, see [Tanzu Insight plug-in overview](../cli-plugins/insight/cli-overview.md).
<br>

Congratulations! You have successfully added testing and security scanning to your application on the Tanzu Application Platform.

Take the next steps to learn about recommended supply chain security best practices and gain a powerful services journey experience on the Tanzu Application Platform by enabling several advanced use cases.

## Next steps

- [Configure image signing and verification in your supply chain](config-supply-chain.md)
