getting-started/create-app-accelerator.hbs.md, before:

# Create an accelerator

This topic guides you through creating an accelerator and registering it in a Tanzu Application Platform
(commonly known as TAP) instance.

> **Note** This guide follows a quick start format. See the [Application Accelerator
> documentation](../application-accelerator/about-application-accelerator.hbs.md)
> for advanced features.

## <a id="you-will"></a>What you will do

- Create a new accelerator project that contains an `accelerator.yaml` file and
  `README.md` file.
- Configure the `accelerator.yaml` file to alter the project's `README.md`.
- Test your accelerator locally using the Tanzu CLI `generate-from-local` command.
- Create a new Git repository for the project and push the project to it.
- Register the accelerator in a Tanzu Application Platform instance.
- Verify project generation with the new accelerator by using Tanzu Application Platform GUI.

## <a id="ide-set-up-for-authoring"></a>Set up Visual Studio Code

1. To simplify accelerator authoring, code assist capabilities are available. To install the
   extension, navigate to the [Marketplace page for the YAML
   plug-in](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.vscode-yaml) and click
   **Install**.

    >**Note** Code assist for authoring accelerators is also available in the IntelliJ IDE. You can
    >enable this by selecting **Application Accelerator** in the schema mapping drop-down menu. For
    >more information about how to enable this, see the IntelliJ [Using schemas from JSON Schema
    >Store](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/json.html#ws_json_using_schemas) documentation.

1. After you install the plug-in, editing files entitled `accelerator.yaml` automatically uses the
   code assist capabilities.

## <a id="create-simple-project"></a>Create a simple project

### Set up the project directory

1. Create a new directory for the project named `myProject` and change to the newly created
   directory.

    ```bash
    mkdir myProject
    cd myProject
    ```

2. Create two new files in the `myProject` directory named `README.md` and `accelerator.yaml`.

    ```bash
    touch README.MD accelerator.yaml
    ```

### <a id="prepare-readme-accelerator-yaml"></a>Prepare the `README.md` and `accelerator.yaml`

The following instructions require using Visual Studio Code to edit the files.

1. Using Visual Studio Code, open the `README.md`, copy and paste the following code block into it,
   and save the file. `CONFIGURABLE_PARAMETER_#` is targeted to be transformed during project
   generation in the upcoming `accelerator.yaml` definition.

    ```markdown

    ## Tanzu Application Accelerator Sample Project

    This is some very important placeholder text that should describe what this project can do and how to use it.

    Here are some configurable parameters:

    * CONFIGURABLE_PARAMETER_1
    * CONFIGURABLE_PARAMETER_2
    ```

2. Open `accelerator.yaml` and begin populating the file section using the snippet below. This
   section contains important information, such as the accelerator's display name, description,
   tags, and more.

    For all possible parameters available in this section, see [Creating
    accelerator.yaml](../application-accelerator/creating-accelerators/accelerator-yaml.hbs.md#accelerator-metadata).

    ```yaml
    accelerator:
      displayName: Simple Accelerator
      description: Contains just a README
      iconUrl: https://blogs.vmware.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/tap.png
      tags:
        - simple
        - getting-started
    ```

3. Add the configuration parameters using the following code snippet. This configures what
   parameters are displayed in the accelerator form during project creation.

    In this example snippet, the field `firstConfigurableParameter` takes in text the user provides.
    The `secondConfigurableParameter` does the same, except it is only displayed if the user checks
    `secondConfigurableParameterCheckbox` because of the `dependsOn` parameter.

    For more information about possible options, see [Creating
    accelerator.yaml](../application-accelerator/creating-accelerators/accelerator-yaml.hbs.md#accelerator-options).

    ```yaml
    # Place this after the 'tags' section from the previous step
      options:
        - name: firstConfigurableParameter
          inputType: text
          label: The text used to replace the first placeholder text in the README.md. Converted to lowercase.
          defaultValue: Configurable Parameter 1
          required: true
        - name: secondConfigurableParameterCheckbox
          inputType: checkbox
          dataType: boolean
          label: Enable to configure the second configurable parameter, otherwise use the default value.
        - name: secondConfigurableParameter
          inputType: text
          label: The text used to replace the second placeholder text in the README.md. Converted to lowercase.
          defaultValue: Configurable Parameter 2
          dependsOn:
            name: secondConfigurableParameterCheckbox
    ```

4. Add the `engine` configuration by using the following code snippet and save the file.

    The `engine` configuration tells the `accelerator engine` behind the scenes what must be done to
    the project files during project creation. In this example, this instructs the engine to replace
    `CONFIGURABLE_PARAMETER_1` and, if the check box is checked, `CONFIGURABLE_PARAMETER_2` with the
    parameters that the user passes in during project creation.

    This also leverages [Spring Expression Language
    (SpEL)](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/current/reference/html/core.html#expressions)
    syntax to convert the text input to all lowercase.

    For more information about the possible parameters for use within the `engine` section, see
    [Creating
    accelerator.yaml](../application-accelerator/creating-accelerators/accelerator-yaml.hbs.md#engine).

    ```yaml
    # Place this after the `options` section from the previous step
    engine:
      merge:
        - include: [ "README.md" ]
          chain:
            - type: ReplaceText
              substitutions:
                - text: "CONFIGURABLE_PARAMETER_1"
                  with: "#firstConfigurableParameter.toLowerCase()"
            - condition: "#secondConfigurableParameterCheckbox"
              chain:
              - type: ReplaceText
                substitutions:
                  - text: "CONFIGURABLE_PARAMETER_2"
                    with: "#secondConfigurableParameter.toLowerCase()"
    ```

### <a id="test-accelerator"></a>Test the accelerator

It is important to quickly test and iterate on accelerators as they are being developed to ensure
that the resulting project is generated as expected.

1. Using the terminal of your choice with access to the `tanzu` command, run the following command
   to test the accelerator created earlier.

    This step takes the local `accelerator.yaml` and project files, configures the project using the
    parameters passed in through the `--options` field, and outputs the project to a specified
    directory.

    >**Important** This step requires that the `TANZU-APPLICATION-ACCELERATOR-URL` endpoint is exposed
    > and accessible. For more information, see [Server API connections for operators and developers](../cli-plugins/accelerator/overview.hbs.md#server-api-connections).

    ```bash
    tanzu accelerator generate-from-local \
        --accelerator-path simple-accelerator="$(pwd)" `# The path to new accelerator` \
        --server-url TANZU-APPLICATION-ACCELERATOR-URL `# Example: https://accelerator.mytapcluster.myorg.com` \
        --options '{"firstConfigurableParameter": "Parameter 1", "secondConfigurableParameterCheckbox": true, "secondConfigurableParameter":"Parameter 2"}' \
        -o "${HOME}/simple-accelerator/" `# Change this path to change where the project folder gets generated`
    ```

2. After the project is generated, a status message is displayed.

    ```bash
    generated project simple-accelerator
    ```

3. Navigate to the output directory and verify that the `README.md` is updated based on the
   `--options` specified in the preceding `generate-from-local` command.

    ```markdown
    ## Tanzu Application Accelerator Sample Project

    This is some very important placeholder text that should describe what this project can do and how to use it.

    Here are some configurable parameters:

    - parameter 1
    - parameter 2
    ```

## <a id="upload-to-git-repo"></a>Upload the project to a Git repository

The Application Accelerator system and Tanzu Application Platform GUI depend on an accelerator
project residing inside a Git repository. For this example, [GitHub](https://github.com/) is used.

1. [Create a new repository in
   GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/create-a-repo) and ensure that
   **Visibility** is set to **Public**. Click **Create Repository**.
2. To push your accelerator project (**not** the generated project from `generate-from-local`) to
   GitHub, follow the instructions that GitHub provides for the *…or create a new repository on the
   command line* that is shown after clicking **Create Repository**. Instructions can also be found
   in the [GitHub documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/importing-your-projects-to-github/importing-source-code-to-github/adding-locally-hosted-code-to-github#adding-a-local-repository-to-github-using-git).
3. Verify that the project is pushed to the target repository.

## <a id="register-accelerator"></a>Register the accelerator to the Tanzu Application Platform and verify project generation output

Now that the accelerator is committed to its own repository, the accelerator can be registered to
Tanzu Application Platform GUI for developers to generate projects from the newly created
accelerator.

1. **Using the URL of the Git repository and branch name created earlier**, run the following
   command using the Tanzu CLI to register the accelerator to Tanzu Application Platform GUI.

    > **Note** `tanzu accelerator create` works with monorepositories as well. Add the
    > `--git-sub-path` parameter with the desired subpath to fetch the accelerator project in that
    > directory. For more information, see [tanzu accelerator
    > create](../cli-plugins/accelerator/command-reference/tanzu_accelerator_create.hbs.md).

    ```bash
    tanzu accelerator create simple-accelerator --git-repository https://github.com/myusername/myprojectrepository --git-branch main
    ```

    The accelerator can take time to reconcile. After it has reconciled, it is available for use in
    Tanzu Application Platform GUI and the Application Accelerator extension for Visual Studio Code.

## Verify project generation output by using Tanzu Application Platform GUI

1. Navigate to your organization's instance of Tanzu Application Platform GUI.

    ![Home screen image of Tanzu Application Platform GUI.](../images/app-accelerator/getting-started-1-1.png)

2. On the left navigation pane, click **Create**.

    ![Image of highlighting the Create button in Tanzu Application Platform GUI.](../images/app-accelerator/getting-started-1-2.png)

3. Using the search bar near the left side of the page, search for `simple accelerator`. After
   you've found it, click **Choose** on the accelerator card.

    ![Image of searching for the accelerator in Tanzu Application Platform GUI.](../images/app-accelerator/getting-started-1-3.png)

4. Configure the project by filling in the parameters in the form.

   The options you defined in `accelerator.yaml` are now displayed for you to configure. The
   `secondConfigurableParameter` `dependsOn` `secondConfigurableParameterCheckbox` might be hidden
   depending on whether the check box is selected.

   ![Image of the configuration page in Tanzu Application Platform GUI.](../images/app-accelerator/getting-started-1-4.png)

5. After configuration is complete, click **Next**.

    > **Note** Depending on your organization's Tanzu Application Platform configuration, you might be
    > presented with an option to create a Git repository. In this guide, this is skipped and is covered
    > in [Deploy an app on Tanzu Application Platform](deploy-first-app.hbs.md).

6. On the **Review and generate** step, review the parameters and click **Generate Accelerator**.
7. Explore the ZIP file of the configured project and verify that the project is generated with the
   parameters you provided during configuration.

    ![Image of explore page showing changed parameters.](../images/app-accelerator/getting-started-1-5.png)

## Learn more about Application Accelerator

- For advanced functionality when creating accelerators, such as accelerator best practices,
  accelerator fragments, engine transforms, and more, see the [Application Accelerator
  documentation](../application-accelerator/about-application-accelerator.hbs.md).
- For more information about Application Accelerator configurations, see the [Configure Application
  Accelerator documentation](../application-accelerator/configuration.hbs.md).
- For information about installing the Application Accelerator extension for Visual Studio Code, see
  the [Application Accelerator Visual Studio Code extension
  documentation](../application-accelerator/vscode.hbs.md).
- For general accelerator troubleshooting, see [Troubleshooting Application Accelerator for VMware
  Tanzu](../application-accelerator/troubleshooting.hbs.md).

Commit message:

[TAAP-1399] Change Tanzu Application Platform GUI to Tanzu Developer Portal

getting-started/create-app-accelerator.hbs.md, after:

# Create an accelerator

This topic guides you through creating an accelerator and registering it in a Tanzu Application Platform
(commonly known as TAP) instance.

> **Note** This guide follows a quick start format. See the [Application Accelerator
> documentation](../application-accelerator/about-application-accelerator.hbs.md)
> for advanced features.

## <a id="you-will"></a>What you will do

- Create a new accelerator project that contains an `accelerator.yaml` file and
  `README.md` file.
- Configure the `accelerator.yaml` file to alter the project's `README.md`.
- Test your accelerator locally using the Tanzu CLI `generate-from-local` command.
- Create a new Git repository for the project and push the project to it.
- Register the accelerator in a Tanzu Application Platform instance.
- Verify project generation with the new accelerator by using Tanzu Developer Portal.

## <a id="ide-set-up-for-authoring"></a>Set up Visual Studio Code

1. To simplify accelerator authoring, code assist capabilities are available. To install the
   extension, navigate to the [Marketplace page for the YAML
   plug-in](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.vscode-yaml) and click
   **Install**.

    >**Note** Code assist for authoring accelerators is also available in the IntelliJ IDE. You can
    >enable this by selecting **Application Accelerator** in the schema mapping drop-down menu. For
    >more information about how to enable this, see the IntelliJ [Using schemas from JSON Schema
    >Store](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/json.html#ws_json_using_schemas) documentation.

1. After you install the plug-in, editing files entitled `accelerator.yaml` automatically uses the
   code assist capabilities.

## <a id="create-simple-project"></a>Create a simple project

### Set up the project directory

1. Create a new directory for the project named `myProject` and change to the newly created
   directory.

    ```bash
    mkdir myProject
    cd myProject
    ```

2. Create two new files in the `myProject` directory named `README.md` and `accelerator.yaml`.

    ```bash
    touch README.MD accelerator.yaml
    ```

### <a id="prepare-readme-accelerator-yaml"></a>Prepare the `README.md` and `accelerator.yaml`

The following instructions require using Visual Studio Code to edit the files.

1. Using Visual Studio Code, open the `README.md`, copy and paste the following code block into it,
   and save the file. `CONFIGURABLE_PARAMETER_#` is targeted to be transformed during project
   generation in the upcoming `accelerator.yaml` definition.

    ```markdown

    ## Tanzu Application Accelerator Sample Project

    This is some very important placeholder text that should describe what this project can do and how to use it.

    Here are some configurable parameters:

    * CONFIGURABLE_PARAMETER_1
    * CONFIGURABLE_PARAMETER_2
    ```

2. Open `accelerator.yaml` and begin populating the file section using the snippet below. This
   section contains important information, such as the accelerator's display name, description,
   tags, and more.

    For all possible parameters available in this section, see [Creating
    accelerator.yaml](../application-accelerator/creating-accelerators/accelerator-yaml.hbs.md#accelerator-metadata).

    ```yaml
    accelerator:
      displayName: Simple Accelerator
      description: Contains just a README
      iconUrl: https://blogs.vmware.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/tap.png
      tags:
        - simple
        - getting-started
    ```

3. Add the configuration parameters using the following code snippet. This configures what
   parameters are displayed in the accelerator form during project creation.

    In this example snippet, the field `firstConfigurableParameter` takes in text the user provides.
    The `secondConfigurableParameter` does the same, except it is only displayed if the user checks
    `secondConfigurableParameterCheckbox` because of the `dependsOn` parameter.

    For more information about possible options, see [Creating
    accelerator.yaml](../application-accelerator/creating-accelerators/accelerator-yaml.hbs.md#accelerator-options).

    ```yaml
    # Place this after the 'tags' section from the previous step
      options:
        - name: firstConfigurableParameter
          inputType: text
          label: The text used to replace the first placeholder text in the README.md. Converted to lowercase.
          defaultValue: Configurable Parameter 1
          required: true
        - name: secondConfigurableParameterCheckbox
          inputType: checkbox
          dataType: boolean
          label: Enable to configure the second configurable parameter, otherwise use the default value.
        - name: secondConfigurableParameter
          inputType: text
          label: The text used to replace the second placeholder text in the README.md. Converted to lowercase.
          defaultValue: Configurable Parameter 2
          dependsOn:
            name: secondConfigurableParameterCheckbox
    ```

4. Add the `engine` configuration by using the following code snippet and save the file.

    The `engine` configuration tells the `accelerator engine` behind the scenes what must be done to
    the project files during project creation. In this example, this instructs the engine to replace
    `CONFIGURABLE_PARAMETER_1` and, if the check box is checked, `CONFIGURABLE_PARAMETER_2` with the
    parameters that the user passes in during project creation.

    This also leverages [Spring Expression Language
    (SpEL)](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/current/reference/html/core.html#expressions)
    syntax to convert the text input to all lowercase.

    For more information about the possible parameters for use within the `engine` section, see
    [Creating
    accelerator.yaml](../application-accelerator/creating-accelerators/accelerator-yaml.hbs.md#engine).

    ```yaml
    # Place this after the `options` section from the previous step
    engine:
      merge:
        - include: [ "README.md" ]
          chain:
            - type: ReplaceText
              substitutions:
                - text: "CONFIGURABLE_PARAMETER_1"
                  with: "#firstConfigurableParameter.toLowerCase()"
            - condition: "#secondConfigurableParameterCheckbox"
              chain:
              - type: ReplaceText
                substitutions:
                  - text: "CONFIGURABLE_PARAMETER_2"
                    with: "#secondConfigurableParameter.toLowerCase()"
    ```

### <a id="test-accelerator"></a>Test the accelerator

It is important to quickly test and iterate on accelerators as they are being developed to ensure
that the resulting project is generated as expected.

1. Using the terminal of your choice with access to the `tanzu` command, run the following command
   to test the accelerator created earlier.

    This step takes the local `accelerator.yaml` and project files, configures the project using the
    parameters passed in through the `--options` field, and outputs the project to a specified
    directory.

    >**Important** This step requires that the `TANZU-APPLICATION-ACCELERATOR-URL` endpoint is exposed
    > and accessible. For more information, see [Server API connections for operators and developers](../cli-plugins/accelerator/overview.hbs.md#server-api-connections).

    ```bash
    tanzu accelerator generate-from-local \
        --accelerator-path simple-accelerator="$(pwd)" `# The path to new accelerator` \
        --server-url TANZU-APPLICATION-ACCELERATOR-URL `# Example: https://accelerator.mytapcluster.myorg.com` \
        --options '{"firstConfigurableParameter": "Parameter 1", "secondConfigurableParameterCheckbox": true, "secondConfigurableParameter":"Parameter 2"}' \
        -o "${HOME}/simple-accelerator/" `# Change this path to change where the project folder gets generated`
    ```

2. After the project is generated, a status message is displayed.

    ```bash
    generated project simple-accelerator
    ```

3. Navigate to the output directory and verify that the `README.md` is updated based on the
   `--options` specified in the preceding `generate-from-local` command.

    ```markdown
    ## Tanzu Application Accelerator Sample Project

    This is some very important placeholder text that should describe what this project can do and how to use it.

    Here are some configurable parameters:

    - parameter 1
    - parameter 2
    ```

## <a id="upload-to-git-repo"></a>Upload the project to a Git repository

The Application Accelerator system and Tanzu Developer Portal depend on an accelerator
project residing inside a Git repository. For this example, [GitHub](https://github.com/) is used.

1. [Create a new repository in
   GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/create-a-repo) and ensure that
   **Visibility** is set to **Public**. Click **Create Repository**.
2. To push your accelerator project (**not** the generated project from `generate-from-local`) to
   GitHub, follow the instructions that GitHub provides for the *…or create a new repository on the
   command line* that is shown after clicking **Create Repository**. Instructions can also be found
   in the [GitHub documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/importing-your-projects-to-github/importing-source-code-to-github/adding-locally-hosted-code-to-github#adding-a-local-repository-to-github-using-git).
3. Verify that the project is pushed to the target repository.

## <a id="register-accelerator"></a>Register the accelerator to the Tanzu Application Platform and verify project generation output

Now that the accelerator is committed to its own repository, the accelerator can be registered to
Tanzu Developer Portal for developers to generate projects from the newly created
accelerator.

1. **Using the URL of the Git repository and branch name created earlier**, run the following
   command using the Tanzu CLI to register the accelerator to Tanzu Developer Portal.

    > **Note** `tanzu accelerator create` works with monorepositories as well. Add the
    > `--git-sub-path` parameter with the desired subpath to fetch the accelerator project in that
    > directory. For more information, see [tanzu accelerator
    > create](../cli-plugins/accelerator/command-reference/tanzu_accelerator_create.hbs.md).

    ```bash
    tanzu accelerator create simple-accelerator --git-repository https://github.com/myusername/myprojectrepository --git-branch main
    ```

    The accelerator can take time to reconcile. After it has reconciled, it is available for use in
    Tanzu Developer Portal and the Application Accelerator extension for Visual Studio Code.

## Verify project generation output by using Tanzu Developer Portal

1. Navigate to your organization's instance of Tanzu Developer Portal.

    ![Home screen image of Tanzu Developer Portal.](../images/app-accelerator/getting-started-1-1.png)

2. On the left navigation pane, click **Create**.

    ![Image of highlighting the Create button in Tanzu Developer Portal.](../images/app-accelerator/getting-started-1-2.png)

3. Using the search bar near the left side of the page, search for `simple accelerator`. After
   you've found it, click **Choose** on the accelerator card.

    ![Image of searching for the accelerator in Tanzu Developer Portal.](../images/app-accelerator/getting-started-1-3.png)

4. Configure the project by filling in the parameters in the form.

   The options you defined in `accelerator.yaml` are now displayed for you to configure. The
   `secondConfigurableParameter` `dependsOn` `secondConfigurableParameterCheckbox` might be hidden
   depending on whether the check box is selected.

   ![Image of the configuration page in Tanzu Developer Portal.](../images/app-accelerator/getting-started-1-4.png)

5. After configuration is complete, click **Next**.

    > **Note** Depending on your organization's Tanzu Application Platform configuration, you might be
    > presented with an option to create a Git repository. In this guide, this is skipped and is covered
    > in [Deploy an app on Tanzu Application Platform](deploy-first-app.hbs.md).

6. On the **Review and generate** step, review the parameters and click **Generate Accelerator**.
7. Explore the ZIP file of the configured project and verify that the project is generated with the
   parameters you provided during configuration.

    ![Image of explore page showing changed parameters.](../images/app-accelerator/getting-started-1-5.png)

## Learn more about Application Accelerator

- For advanced functionality when creating accelerators, such as accelerator best practices,
  accelerator fragments, engine transforms, and more, see the [Application Accelerator
  documentation](../application-accelerator/about-application-accelerator.hbs.md).
- For more information about Application Accelerator configurations, see the [Configure Application
  Accelerator documentation](../application-accelerator/configuration.hbs.md).
- For information about installing the Application Accelerator extension for Visual Studio Code, see
  the [Application Accelerator Visual Studio Code extension
  documentation](../application-accelerator/vscode.hbs.md).
- For general accelerator troubleshooting, see [Troubleshooting Application Accelerator for VMware
  Tanzu](../application-accelerator/troubleshooting.hbs.md).
