getting-started/generate-first-app.hbs.md, before:

# Generate an application with Application Accelerator

This topic guides you through how to generate a new project using Application Accelerator
and how to deploy the project onto a Tanzu Application Platform (commonly known as TAP) cluster.
For background information, see [Application Accelerator](about-application-accelerator.md).

## <a id="prereqs"></a> Prerequisites

Before you start, complete all [Getting Started prerequisites](../getting-started.md#get-started-prereqs).

## <a id="interface-options"></a> Generate a project using an Application Accelerator

There are multiple interfaces that you can use to generate a new project. The options are:

- Application Accelerator extension for VS Code
- Application Accelerator plug-in for IntelliJ
- Tanzu Application Platform GUI

Choose one of the following tabs for how to generate and deploy applications using your selected interface.
If you have already generated a project and want to skip this step, you can go to
[Deploying your application with Tanzu Application Platform](deploy-first-app.hbs.md).

VS Code
: **What you will do:**

  - Install the Application Accelerator extension for VS Code.
  - (Optional) Provision a new GitHub repository and upload the project to the
    repository.
  - Generate a project using an Application Accelerator.

  **To generate a new project using an Application Accelerator:**

  1. Install and configure the Application Accelerator extension for VS Code, see
     [Application Accelerator Visual Studio Code extension](../application-accelerator/vscode.hbs.md).

  1. Select an accelerator from the catalog. This example uses `Tanzu Java Web App`.

     ![Selecting Tanzu Java Web App in the Visual Studio Code UI.](../images/app-accelerator/generate-first-app/vscode-1-1.png)

  1. In **Configure Accelerator**, configure the accelerator as defined by your project's requirements.
     This example configures the project to use Spring Boot v3.0 and Java v17.

     ![The Configure Accelerator step in the Visual Studio Code UI. The check box for Spring Boot 3.0 is selected.](../images/app-accelerator/generate-first-app/vscode-1-2.png)

  1. Click **Next Step**.

  1. If your organization's Tanzu Application Platform is configured for Git repository creation,
     configure the **Setup Repository** step using the following sub-steps.
     If not, click **Skip** and go to step 5.

    >**Note** For information about configuring optional Git repository creation
    >and supported repositories, see
    >[Create an Application Accelerator Git repository during project creation](../tap-gui/plugins/application-accelerator-git-repo.hbs.md).

      1. Using the **Providers** drop-down menu, select your Git provider. For example, `github.com`.

      1. After you select the provider, a dialog box appears for you to enter an API token for your Git provider.
        Populate the text box with your provider's API token and press Enter.

         This API key must be able to create new repositories for an organization or user.
         For information about how to create an API token for Git repository creation, see
         [Creating a personal access token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token#creating-a-personal-access-token-classic)
         in the GitHub documentation.

         ![The Setup Repository step in the Visual Studio UI showing the dialog box to enter the personal access token for your provider.](../images/app-accelerator/generate-first-app/vscode-1-4.png)

      1. In the **Owner** text box, enter the name of either the GitHub organization or user name to
         create the repository under.

      1. In the **Repository Name** text box, enter the name of the project repository.

      1. In the **Repository Branch** text box, enter the name of the default branch for the
         project repository. Typically, this is set to `main`.

      1. Click **Next Step**.

  1. In the **Review and Generate** step, verify that all the information you provided
     is accurate, then click **Generate Project**.

     ![The Review and Generate step in the Visual Studio Code UI.](../images/app-accelerator/generate-first-app/vscode-1-5.png)

  1. A dialog box appears for you to choose a location for the project to be stored on the local file system.
     Choose a directory or create a new one.

  1. After the project has generated, a second dialog box appears for you to open the new project
     in a new window. Click **Yes**.

  1. When opened, the project is ready for development.

IntelliJ
: **What you will do:**

  - Install the Application Accelerator plug-in for IntelliJ.
  - Generate a project using an Application Accelerator.

  **To generate a new project using an Application Accelerator:**

  1. Install and configure the Application Accelerator plug-in for IntelliJ, see
     [Application Accelerator plugin for IntelliJ](../application-accelerator/intellij.hbs.md).

  1. On the Welcome to IntelliJ IDEA page, click **New Project**.

     ![The IntelliJ UI with the New Project button highlighted.](../images/app-accelerator/intellij/app-accelerators-intellij-new-project.png)

  1. Click **Tanzu Application Accelerator** in the left side panel.

     ![The IntelliJ UI with Tanzu Application Accelerator selected in the Generators list in the left panel.](../images/app-accelerator/intellij/app-accelerators-intellij-accelerator-list.png)

  1. Select an accelerator from the catalog. This example uses `Tanzu Java Web App`.

  1. Click **Next**.

  1. In the **Configure Options** step, configure the accelerator as defined by your project's requirements.

     ![The IntelliJ UI showing the Configure Options pane for the Tanzu Java Web App accelerator with the fields filled in.](../images/app-accelerator/intellij/app-accelerators-intellij-options.png)

  1. Click **Next**.

  1. In the **Review and Generate** step, verify that all the information provided is accurate then
     click **Next**.

      ![The Review and Generate pane for the accelerator showing the information configured in the previous steps.](../images/app-accelerator/intellij/app-accelerators-intellij-review.png)

  1. After the project has generated, click **Create** to open the new project in IntelliJ.

  1. When opened, the project is ready for development.

Tanzu Application Platform GUI
: In this example, you use the `Tanzu-Java-Web-App` accelerator. You also use
  Tanzu Application Platform GUI. For information about connecting to Tanzu Application Platform GUI,
  see [Access Tanzu Application Platform GUI](../tap-gui/accessing-tap-gui.md).

  **What you will do:**

  - Generate a project from an Application Accelerator.
  - (Optional) Provision a new Git repository for the project.
  - Upload it to your Git repository of choice.

  **To generate a new project using an Application Accelerator:**

  1. From Tanzu Application Platform GUI portal, click **Create** located on the
     left side of the navigation pane to see the list of available accelerators.

      ![Screenshot of the Accelerators page showing list of available accelerators in Tanzu Application Platform GUI.](../images/getting-started-tap-gui-1.png)

  1. Locate the Tanzu Java Web App accelerator and click **CHOOSE**.

  1. In the **Generate Accelerators** dialog box, replace the default value
  `dev.local` in the **prefix for container image registry** text box with the
  registry in the form of `SERVER-NAME/REPO-NAME`. The `SERVER-NAME/REPO-NAME`
  must match what was specified for `registry` as part of the installation
  values for `ootb_supply_chain_basic`. See the Full Profile section on
  [Installing   Tanzu Application Platform package and../install-online/install.hbs.md
  profiles](../install-online/profile.hbs.md#full-profile).

      ![Screenshot of the Tanzu Java Web App accelerator form in Tanzu Application Platform GUI.](../images/getting-started-tap-gui-1-1.png)

  1. Click **NEXT**.

  1. If your instance has optional Git repository support enabled, continue with
     the following sub-steps. If your instance does not support this, skip to step 5.

      >**Note** For information about configuring optional Git repository creation and supported repositories,
      >see [Create an Application Accelerator Git repository during project creation](../tap-gui/plugins/application-accelerator-git-repo.hbs.md).

      1. Select the **Create Git repo?** check box.
      1. Select the host Git repository provider from the **Host** drop-down menu. For example, `github.com`.
      1. Populate the **Owner** and **Repository** text boxes.

          ![Screenshot of the git repository creation form in Tanzu Application Platform GUI.](../images/getting-started-tap-gui-1-2.png)

      1. While you are populating the form, a dialog box appears asking for permission to provision
         Git repositories. Follow the prompts and continue.

      1. Click **NEXT**.

  1. Verify the provided information, and click **GENERATE ACCELERATOR**.

  1. After the Task Activity processes complete, click **DOWNLOAD ZIP FILE**.

  1. After downloading the ZIP file, expand it in a workspace directory. If you
     did not create a Git repository in the preceding steps, follow your
     preferred procedure for uploading the generated project files to a Git
     repository for your new project.

<br>

## <a id="learn-more"></a>Learn more about Application Accelerator

- For information about how to configure optional Git repository creation, see
  [Configure](../tap-gui/plugins/application-accelerator-git-repo.hbs.md#configuration)
  in _Create an Application Accelerator Git repository during project creation_.

- For information about Application Accelerator configurations, see
  [Configure Application Accelerator](../application-accelerator/configuration.hbs.md).

- For information about installing the Application Accelerator extension for Visual Studio Code, see
  [Application Accelerator Visual Studio Code extension](../application-accelerator/vscode.hbs.md).

- For general accelerator troubleshooting, see
  [Troubleshooting Application Accelerator for VMware Tanzu](../application-accelerator/troubleshooting.hbs.md).

## <a id="next-steps"></a>Next Steps

Now that you have generated a project that is ready for Tanzu Application Platform, learn
how to quickly deploy the application on a Tanzu Application Platform cluster in
[Deploy an app on Tanzu Application Platform](deploy-first-app.hbs.md).

Commit message:

[TAAP-1399] Change Tanzu Application Platform GUI to Tanzu Developer Portal

getting-started/generate-first-app.hbs.md, after:

# Generate an application with Application Accelerator

This topic guides you through how to generate a new project using Application Accelerator
and how to deploy the project onto a Tanzu Application Platform (commonly known as TAP) cluster.
For background information, see [Application Accelerator](about-application-accelerator.md).

## <a id="prereqs"></a> Prerequisites

Before you start, complete all [Getting Started prerequisites](../getting-started.md#get-started-prereqs).

## <a id="interface-options"></a> Generate a project using an Application Accelerator

There are multiple interfaces that you can use to generate a new project. The options are:

- Application Accelerator extension for VS Code
- Application Accelerator plug-in for IntelliJ
- Tanzu Developer Portal

Choose one of the following tabs for how to generate and deploy applications using your selected interface.
If you have already generated a project and want to skip this step, you can go to
[Deploying your application with Tanzu Application Platform](deploy-first-app.hbs.md).

VS Code
: **What you will do:**

  - Install the Application Accelerator extension for VS Code.
  - (Optional) Provision a new GitHub repository and upload the project to the
    repository.
  - Generate a project using an Application Accelerator.

  **To generate a new project using an Application Accelerator:**

  1. Install and configure the Application Accelerator extension for VS Code, see
     [Application Accelerator Visual Studio Code extension](../application-accelerator/vscode.hbs.md).

  1. Select an accelerator from the catalog. This example uses `Tanzu Java Web App`.

     ![Selecting Tanzu Java Web App in the Visual Studio Code UI.](../images/app-accelerator/generate-first-app/vscode-1-1.png)

  1. In **Configure Accelerator**, configure the accelerator as defined by your project's requirements.
     This example configures the project to use Spring Boot v3.0 and Java v17.

     ![The Configure Accelerator step in the Visual Studio Code UI. The check box for Spring Boot 3.0 is selected.](../images/app-accelerator/generate-first-app/vscode-1-2.png)

  1. Click **Next Step**.

  1. If your organization's Tanzu Application Platform is configured for Git repository creation,
     configure the **Setup Repository** step using the following sub-steps.
     If not, click **Skip** and go to step 5.

    >**Note** For information about configuring optional Git repository creation
    >and supported repositories, see
    >[Create an Application Accelerator Git repository during project creation](../tap-gui/plugins/application-accelerator-git-repo.hbs.md).

      1. Using the **Providers** drop-down menu, select your Git provider. For example, `github.com`.

      1. After you select the provider, a dialog box appears for you to enter an API token for your Git provider.
        Populate the text box with your provider's API token and press Enter.

         This API key must be able to create new repositories for an organization or user.
         For information about how to create an API token for Git repository creation, see
         [Creating a personal access token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token#creating-a-personal-access-token-classic)
         in the GitHub documentation.

         ![The Setup Repository step in the Visual Studio UI showing the dialog box to enter the personal access token for your provider.](../images/app-accelerator/generate-first-app/vscode-1-4.png)

      1. In the **Owner** text box, enter the name of either the GitHub organization or user name to
         create the repository under.

      1. In the **Repository Name** text box, enter the name of the project repository.

      1. In the **Repository Branch** text box, enter the name of the default branch for the
         project repository. Typically, this is set to `main`.

      1. Click **Next Step**.

  1. In the **Review and Generate** step, verify that all the information you provided
     is accurate, then click **Generate Project**.

     ![The Review and Generate step in the Visual Studio Code UI.](../images/app-accelerator/generate-first-app/vscode-1-5.png)

  1. A dialog box appears for you to choose a location for the project to be stored on the local file system.
     Choose a directory or create a new one.

  1. After the project has generated, a second dialog box appears for you to open the new project
     in a new window. Click **Yes**.

  1. When opened, the project is ready for development.

IntelliJ
: **What you will do:**

  - Install the Application Accelerator plug-in for IntelliJ.
  - Generate a project using an Application Accelerator.

  **To generate a new project using an Application Accelerator:**

  1. Install and configure the Application Accelerator plug-in for IntelliJ, see
     [Application Accelerator plugin for IntelliJ](../application-accelerator/intellij.hbs.md).

  1. On the Welcome to IntelliJ IDEA page, click **New Project**.

     ![The IntelliJ UI with the New Project button highlighted.](../images/app-accelerator/intellij/app-accelerators-intellij-new-project.png)

  1. Click **Tanzu Application Accelerator** in the left side panel.

     ![The IntelliJ UI with Tanzu Application Accelerator selected in the Generators list in the left panel.](../images/app-accelerator/intellij/app-accelerators-intellij-accelerator-list.png)

  1. Select an accelerator from the catalog. This example uses `Tanzu Java Web App`.

  1. Click **Next**.

  1. In the **Configure Options** step, configure the accelerator as defined by your project's requirements.

     ![The IntelliJ UI showing the Configure Options pane for the Tanzu Java Web App accelerator with the fields filled in.](../images/app-accelerator/intellij/app-accelerators-intellij-options.png)

  1. Click **Next**.

  1. In the **Review and Generate** step, verify that all the information provided is accurate then
     click **Next**.

      ![The Review and Generate pane for the accelerator showing the information configured in the previous steps.](../images/app-accelerator/intellij/app-accelerators-intellij-review.png)

  1. After the project has generated, click **Create** to open the new project in IntelliJ.

  1. When opened, the project is ready for development.

Tanzu Developer Portal
: In this example, you use the `Tanzu-Java-Web-App` accelerator. You also use
  Tanzu Developer Portal. For information about connecting to Tanzu Developer Portal,
  see [Access Tanzu Developer Portal](../tap-gui/accessing-tap-gui.md).

  **What you will do:**

  - Generate a project from an Application Accelerator.
  - (Optional) Provision a new Git repository for the project.
  - Upload it to your Git repository of choice.

  **To generate a new project using an Application Accelerator:**

  1. From Tanzu Developer Portal portal, click **Create** located on the
     left side of the navigation pane to see the list of available accelerators.

      ![Screenshot of the Accelerators page showing list of available accelerators in Tanzu Developer Portal.](../images/getting-started-tap-gui-1.png)

  1. Locate the Tanzu Java Web App accelerator and click **CHOOSE**.

  1. In the **Generate Accelerators** dialog box, replace the default value
  `dev.local` in the **prefix for container image registry** text box with the
  registry in the form of `SERVER-NAME/REPO-NAME`. The `SERVER-NAME/REPO-NAME`
  must match what was specified for `registry` as part of the installation
  values for `ootb_supply_chain_basic`. See the Full Profile section on
  [Installing   Tanzu Application Platform package and../install-online/install.hbs.md
  profiles](../install-online/profile.hbs.md#full-profile).

      ![Screenshot of the Tanzu Java Web App accelerator form in Tanzu Developer Portal.](../images/getting-started-tap-gui-1-1.png)

  1. Click **NEXT**.

  1. If your instance has optional Git repository support enabled, continue with
     the following sub-steps. If your instance does not support this, skip to step 5.

      >**Note** For information about configuring optional Git repository creation and supported repositories,
      >see [Create an Application Accelerator Git repository during project creation](../tap-gui/plugins/application-accelerator-git-repo.hbs.md).

      1. Select the **Create Git repo?** check box.
      1. Select the host Git repository provider from the **Host** drop-down menu. For example, `github.com`.
      1. Populate the **Owner** and **Repository** text boxes.

          ![Screenshot of the git repository creation form in Tanzu Developer Portal.](../images/getting-started-tap-gui-1-2.png)

      1. While you are populating the form, a dialog box appears asking for permission to provision
         Git repositories. Follow the prompts and continue.

      1. Click **NEXT**.

  1. Verify the provided information, and click **GENERATE ACCELERATOR**.

  1. After the Task Activity processes complete, click **DOWNLOAD ZIP FILE**.

  1. After downloading the ZIP file, expand it in a workspace directory. If you
     did not create a Git repository in the preceding steps, follow your
     preferred procedure for uploading the generated project files to a Git
     repository for your new project.

<br>

## <a id="learn-more"></a>Learn more about Application Accelerator

- For information about how to configure optional Git repository creation, see
  [Configure](../tap-gui/plugins/application-accelerator-git-repo.hbs.md#configuration)
  in _Create an Application Accelerator Git repository during project creation_.

- For information about Application Accelerator configurations, see
  [Configure Application Accelerator](../application-accelerator/configuration.hbs.md).

- For information about installing the Application Accelerator extension for Visual Studio Code, see
  [Application Accelerator Visual Studio Code extension](../application-accelerator/vscode.hbs.md).

- For general accelerator troubleshooting, see
  [Troubleshooting Application Accelerator for VMware Tanzu](../application-accelerator/troubleshooting.hbs.md).

## <a id="next-steps"></a>Next Steps

Now that you have generated a project that is ready for Tanzu Application Platform, learn
how to quickly deploy the application on a Tanzu Application Platform cluster in
[Deploy an app on Tanzu Application Platform](deploy-first-app.hbs.md).
