scst-scan/samples/private-source.hbs.md, before:

# Sample private source scan

## <a id="define-resources"></a>Define the resources

1. Create a [Kubernetes Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#use-case-pod-with-ssh-keys) named `secret-ssh-auth` with an SSH key for cloning a git repository.

2. Create `sample-private-source-scan.yaml`:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1beta1
kind: SourceScan
metadata:
  name: sample-private-source-scan
spec:
  git:
    url: URL
    revision: REVISION
    knownHosts: |
      KNOWN-HOSTS
  scanTemplate: private-source-scan-template
```

Where:

- `URL` is the git clone repository using SSH.
- `REVISION` is the commit hash.
- `KNOWN-HOSTS` are the [SSH client stored host keys](https://www.ssh.com/academy/ssh/host-key#known-host-keys) generated by [ssh-keyscan](https://man.openbsd.org/ssh-keyscan).
    - For example, `ssh-keyscan github.com` produces:
        ```bash
        github.com ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAABIwAAAQEAq2A7hRGmdnm9tUDbO9IDSwBK6TbQa+PXYPCPy6rbTrTtw7PHkccKrpp0yVhp5HdEIcKr6pLlVDBfOLX9QUsyCOV0wzfjIJNlGEYsdlLJizHhbn2mUjvSAHQqZETYP81eFzLQNnPHt4EVVUh7VfDESU84KezmD5QlWpXLmvU31/yMf+Se8xhHTvKSCZIFImWwoG6mbUoWf9nzpIoaSjB+weqqUUmpaaasXVal72J+UX2B+2RPW3RcT0eOzQgqlJL3RKrTJvdsjE3JEAvGq3lGHSZXy28G3skua2SmVi/w4yCE6gbODqnTWlg7+wC604ydGXA8VJiS5ap43JXiUFFAaQ==
        github.com ecdsa-sha2-nistp256 AAAAE2VjZHNhLXNoYTItbmlzdHAyNTYAAAAIbmlzdHAyNTYAAABBBEmKSENjQEezOmxkZMy7opKgwFB9nkt5YRrYMjNuG5N87uRgg6CLrbo5wAdT/y6v0mKV0U2w0WZ2YB/++Tpockg=
        github.com ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAIOMqqnkVzrm0SdG6UOoqKLsabgH5C9okWi0dh2l9GKJl
        ```

For example:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1beta1
kind: SourceScan
metadata:
  name: sample-private-source-scan
spec:
  git:
    url: git@github.com:acme/website.git
    revision: 25as5e7df56c6401111be514a2f3666179ba04d0
    knownHosts: |
      10.254.171.53 ecdsa-sha2-nistp256 AAAAE2VjZHNhLXNoYTItb
POVVQF/CzuAeQNv4fZVf2pLxpGHle15zkpxOosckequUDxoq
  scanTemplate: private-source-scan-template
```

## <a id="set-up-watch"></a>(Optional) Set up a watch

Before deploying, set up a watch in another terminal to see things process, which will be quick:

```console
watch kubectl get sourcescans,imagescans,pods,taskruns,scantemplates,scanpolicies
```

For more information, see [Observing and Troubleshooting](../observing.md).

## <a id="deploy-resources"></a>Deploy the resources

```console
kubectl apply -f sample-private-source-scan.yaml
```

## <a id="view-scan-status"></a>View the scan status

Once the scan has completed, run:

```console
kubectl describe sourcescan sample-private-source-scan
```

Notice the `Status.Conditions` includes a `Reason: JobFinished` and `Message: The scan job finished`.

For more information, see [Viewing and Understanding Scan Status Conditions](../results.md).

## <a id="clean-up"></a>Clean up

```console
kubectl delete -f sample-private-source-scan.yaml
```

## <a id="view-vuln-reports"></a>View vulnerability reports

After completing the scans, [query the Supply Chain Security Tools - Store](../../cli-plugins/insight/query-data.md) to view your vulnerability results.

Commit message:

Added -n DEV-NAMESPACE to sample scans
Signed-off-by: Robin Li <lrobin@vmware.com>

scst-scan/samples/private-source.hbs.md, after:

# Sample private source scan

## <a id="define-resources"></a>Define the resources

1. Create a [Kubernetes Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#use-case-pod-with-ssh-keys) named `secret-ssh-auth` with an SSH key for cloning a git repository.

2. Create `sample-private-source-scan.yaml`:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1beta1
kind: SourceScan
metadata:
  name: sample-private-source-scan
spec:
  git:
    url: URL
    revision: REVISION
    knownHosts: |
      KNOWN-HOSTS
  scanTemplate: private-source-scan-template
```

Where:

- `URL` is the git clone repository using SSH.
- `REVISION` is the commit hash.
- `KNOWN-HOSTS` are the [SSH client stored host keys](https://www.ssh.com/academy/ssh/host-key#known-host-keys) generated by [ssh-keyscan](https://man.openbsd.org/ssh-keyscan).
    - For example, `ssh-keyscan github.com` produces:
        ```bash
        github.com ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAABIwAAAQEAq2A7hRGmdnm9tUDbO9IDSwBK6TbQa+PXYPCPy6rbTrTtw7PHkccKrpp0yVhp5HdEIcKr6pLlVDBfOLX9QUsyCOV0wzfjIJNlGEYsdlLJizHhbn2mUjvSAHQqZETYP81eFzLQNnPHt4EVVUh7VfDESU84KezmD5QlWpXLmvU31/yMf+Se8xhHTvKSCZIFImWwoG6mbUoWf9nzpIoaSjB+weqqUUmpaaasXVal72J+UX2B+2RPW3RcT0eOzQgqlJL3RKrTJvdsjE3JEAvGq3lGHSZXy28G3skua2SmVi/w4yCE6gbODqnTWlg7+wC604ydGXA8VJiS5ap43JXiUFFAaQ==
        github.com ecdsa-sha2-nistp256 AAAAE2VjZHNhLXNoYTItbmlzdHAyNTYAAAAIbmlzdHAyNTYAAABBBEmKSENjQEezOmxkZMy7opKgwFB9nkt5YRrYMjNuG5N87uRgg6CLrbo5wAdT/y6v0mKV0U2w0WZ2YB/++Tpockg=
        github.com ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAIOMqqnkVzrm0SdG6UOoqKLsabgH5C9okWi0dh2l9GKJl
        ```

For example:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1beta1
kind: SourceScan
metadata:
  name: sample-private-source-scan
spec:
  git:
    url: git@github.com:acme/website.git
    revision: 25as5e7df56c6401111be514a2f3666179ba04d0
    knownHosts: |
      10.254.171.53 ecdsa-sha2-nistp256 AAAAE2VjZHNhLXNoYTItb
POVVQF/CzuAeQNv4fZVf2pLxpGHle15zkpxOosckequUDxoq
  scanTemplate: private-source-scan-template
```

## <a id="set-up-watch"></a>(Optional) Set up a watch

Before deploying the resources to a user specified namespace, set up a watch in another terminal to view the progression:

```console
watch kubectl get sourcescans,imagescans,pods,taskruns,scantemplates,scanpolicies -n DEV-NAMESPACE
```

Where `DEV-NAMESPACE` is the developer namespace where the scanner is installed.

For more information, see [Observing and Troubleshooting](../observing.md).

## <a id="deploy-resources"></a>Deploy the resources

```console
kubectl apply -f sample-private-source-scan.yaml -n DEV-NAMESPACE
```

Where `DEV-NAMESPACE` is the developer namespace where the scanner is installed.

## <a id="view-scan-status"></a>View the scan status

Once the scan has completed, run:

```console
kubectl describe sourcescan sample-private-source-scan -n DEV-NAMESPACE
```

Notice the `Status.Conditions` includes a `Reason: JobFinished` and `Message: The scan job finished`.

For more information, see [Viewing and Understanding Scan Status Conditions](../results.md).

## <a id="clean-up"></a>Clean up

```console
kubectl delete -f sample-private-source-scan.yaml -n DEV-NAMESPACE
```

## <a id="view-vuln-reports"></a>View vulnerability reports

After completing the scans, [query the Supply Chain Security Tools - Store](../../cli-plugins/insight/query-data.md) to view your vulnerability results.
