namespace-provisioner/use-case3.hbs.md, before:

# Work with private Git Repositories

This topic tells you how to use private Git repositories for storing your GitOps based installation files, and the additional platform operator templated resources that you want to create in your developer namespace.

## <a id= 'git-private'></a>Git Authentication for using a private Git repository

Authentication is provided using a secret in the `tap-namespace-provisioning` namespace, or an existing secret in another namespace referred to in the secretRef in the `additional_sources`. For more details, see [Customize Installation of Namespace Provisioner](customize-installation.hbs.md).

### Create the Git Authentication secret in tap-namespace-provisioning namespace

The secrets for Git authentication allow the following keys: ssh-privatekey, ssh-knownhosts, username, and password. If ssh-knownhosts is not specified, Git does not perform strict host checking.

1. Create the Git secret:

    Using HTTP(s) based Authentication
    : If you are using Username and Password for authentication:

      ```yaml
      cat << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Secret
      metadata:
        name: git-auth
        namespace: tap-namespace-provisioning
      type: Opaque
      stringData:
        username: GIT-USERNAME
        password: GIT-PASSWORD
      EOF
      ```

    Using SSH based Authentication
    : If you are using SSH private key for authentication:

      ```yaml
      cat << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Secret
      metadata:
        name: git-auth
        namespace: tap-namespace-provisioning
      type: Opaque
      stringData:
        ssh-privatekey: |
            -----BEGIN OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----
            ..
            -----END OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----
      EOF
      ```

2. Add the `secretRef` section to the `additional_sources` and the `gitops_install` section of your `tap-values.yaml` file:

    Using Namespace Provisioner Controller
    : Description

      ```yaml
      namespace_provisioner:
        controller: true
        additional_sources:
        - git:
            ref: origin/main
            subPath: sources
            # This example URL is for SSH auth. Use https:// path if using HTTPS auth
            url: git@github.com:private-repo-org/repo.git
            secretRef:
              name: git-auth
      ```

    Using GitOps
    : Description

      **Caution** There is a current limitation in kapp-controller which does not allow you to
      re-use the same Git secret multiple times. If you have multiple additional sources using private
      repositories with the same credentials, you must create different secrets with the same
      authentication details for each of them.

      In this example, the location where the list of namespaces resides is also a private repository. So you must create a secret named `git-auth-install` with the same authentication details.

      ```yaml
      namespace_provisioner:
        controller: false
        additional_sources:
        - git:
            ref: origin/main
            subPath: tekton-pipelines
            # This example URL is for SSH auth. Use https:// path if using HTTPS auth
            url: git@github.com:private-repo-org/repo.git
            secretRef:
              name: git-auth
        gitops_install:
          ref: origin/main
          subPath: gitops-install
          # This example URL is for SSH auth. Use https:// path if using HTTPS auth
          url: git@github.com:private-repo-org/repo.git
          secretRef:
            name: git-auth-install
      ```
<br>
### Import from another namespace

If you already have a Git secret created in a namespace other than `tap-namespace-provisioning`
namespace and you want to refer to that, the `secretRef` section should have the namespace
mentioned with the `create_export` flag. The default value for `create_export` is false
as it assumes the Secret is already exported for `tap-namespace-provisioning` namespace,
but allows you to specify if you want the Namespace Provisioner to create a
`Carvel SecretExport` for that secret.

The example refers to `git-auth` secret from `tap-install` in the secretRef section.

Using Namespace Provisioner Controller
: Description

  ```yaml
  namespace_provisioner:
    controller: true
    additional_sources:
    - git:
        ref: origin/main
        subPath: sources
        #! This example URL is for SSH auth. Use https:// path if using HTTPS auth
        url: git@github.com:private-repo-org/repo.git
        secretRef:
            name: git-auth
            namespace: tap-install
            #! If this secret is already exported for this namespace, you can ignore the create_export key as it defaults to false
            create_export: true
  ```

Using GitOps
: Description

  ```yaml
  namespace_provisioner:
    controller: false
    additional_sources:
    - git:
        ref: origin/main
        subPath: tekton-pipelines
        #! This example URL is for SSH auth. Use https:// path if using HTTPS auth
        url: git@github.com:private-repo-org/repo.git
        secretRef:
            name: git-auth
            namespace: tap-install
            #! If this secret is already exported for this namespace, you can ignore the create_export key as it defaults to false
            create_export: true
    gitops_install:
      ref: origin/main
      subPath: gitops-install
      #! This example URL is for SSH auth. Use https:// path if using HTTPS auth
      url: git@github.com:private-repo-org/repo.git
      secretRef:
        name: git-auth-install
        namespace: tap-install
        #! If this secret is already exported for this namespace, you can ignore the create_export key as it defaults to false
        create_export: true
  ```

After reconciling, Namespace Provisioner creates:

- [SecretExport](https://github.com/carvel-dev/secretgen-controller/blob/develop/docs/secret-export.md#secretexport) for the secret in the provided namespace (tap-install in the above example) to the Namespace Provisioner namespace.
- [SecretImport](https://github.com/carvel-dev/secretgen-controller/blob/develop/docs/secret-export.md#secretimport) for the secret in Namespace Provisioning namespace (tap-namespace-provisioning) so Carvel [secretgen-controller](https://github.com/carvel-dev/secretgen-controller) can create the required secret for the Namespace Provisioner to connect to the private Git repository.

## Git Authentication for Private Repository for Workloads and Supply chain

To either fetch or push source code from or to a repository that requires credentials,
you must provide those through a Kubernetes secret object referenced by the intended Kubernetes
object created for performing the action. The following sections provide details about how to
appropriately set up Kubernetes secrets for carrying those credentials forward to the proper resources.

This section provides instructions on how to configure the `default` service account to work with private Git repositories for workloads and supply chain using Namespace Provisioner.

To configure the service account to work with private Git repositories, follow the steps below:

1. Create a secret in the `tap-install` namespace or any namespace of your preference, that contains the Git credentials in YAML format.

   - `host`, `username`, and `password`, or `personal access token` values for HTTP based Git Authentication.
   - `ssh-privatekey, identity, identity_pub`, and `known_hosts` for SSH based Git Authentication.

    >**Note** The `stringData` key of the secret must have **.yaml** or **.yml** suffix at the end.

    Using HTTP(s) based Authentication
    : If using Username and Password for authentication.

      ```yaml
      cat << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Secret
      metadata:
        name: workload-git-auth
        namespace: tap-install
      type: Opaque
      stringData:
        content.yaml: |
          git:
            #! For HTTP Auth. Recommend using https:// for the git server.
            host: GIT-SERVER
            username: GIT-USERNAME
            password: GIT-PASSWORD
      EOF
      ```

    Using SSH based Authentication
    : If you are using SSH private key for authentication, create the Git secret with authentication details as follows:

      ```yaml
      cat << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Secret
      metadata:
        name: workload-git-auth
        namespace: tap-install
      type: Opaque
      stringData:
        content.yaml: |
          git:
            #! For SSH Auth
            ssh_privatekey: SSH-PRIVATE-KEY
            identity: SSH-PRIVATE-KEY
            identity_pub: SSH-PUBLIC-KEY
            known_hosts: GIT-SERVER-PUBLIC-KEYS
      EOF
      ```

2. To create a secret that will be added to the service account in the developer namespace within the GitOps repository, use this [example](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples/blob/main/ns-provisioner-samples/credentials/git.yaml) or follow the example provided below.

    Instead of directly including the actual user name and password in the Git repository secret, use
    the `data.values.imported` keys to add references to the values from the git-auth secret created in Step 1.

    This secret represents the actual Git secret that will be created by the Namespace Provisioner
    in each managed namespace. It should be included in your Git repository linked in the
    `additional_sources` section of `tap-values.yaml` mentioned in Step 4.

    ```yaml
    #@ load("@ytt:data", "data")
    ---
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Secret
    metadata:
      name: git
      annotations:
        tekton.dev/git-0: #@ data.values.imported.git.host
    type: kubernetes.io/basic-auth
    stringData:
      username: #@ data.values.imported.git.username
      password: #@ data.values.imported.git.password
    ```

3. Combine this `tap-values.yaml`:

    Using Namespace Provisioner Controller
    : Add the following configuration to `tap-values.yaml`:

      ```yaml
      namespace_provisioner:
        controller: true
        additional_sources:
        - git:
            ref: origin/main
            subPath: ns-provisioner-samples/credentials
            url: https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples.git
        import_data_values_secrets:
        - name: workload-git-auth
          namespace: tap-install
          create_export: true
        default_parameters:
          supply_chain_service_account:
            secrets:
            - git
      ```

    Using GitOps
    : Add the following configuration to `tap-values.yaml`:

      ```yaml
      namespace_provisioner:
        controller: false
        additional_sources:
        - git:
            ref: origin/main
            subPath: ns-provisioner-samples/credentials
            url: https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples.git
        gitops_install:
          ref: origin/main
          subPath: ns-provisioner-samples/gitops-install
          url: https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples.git
        import_data_values_secrets:
        - name: workload-git-auth
          namespace: tap-install
          create_export: true
        default_parameters:
          supply_chain_service_account:
            secrets:
            - git
      ```

   - First additional source points to the location where the templated Git secret resides which will
   be created in all developer namespaces.
   - Import the newly created `workload-git-auth` secret into Namespace Provisioner to use in
   `data.values.imported` by adding the secret to the `import_data_values_secrets`.
   - Add the secret to be added to the ServiceAccount in the `default_parameters`. For more
   information, see [Customize service accounts](use-case4.hbs.md#customize-sa).

   >**Note** `create_export` is set to `true` in `import_data_values_secrets`, as a result, a
   SecretExport is created for the `workload-git-auth` secret in the `tap-install` namespace
   automatically by Namespace Provisioner. After the changes are reconciled, the secret
   named **git ** is in all provisioned namespaces and is also added to the default service account of those namespaces.

4. In your `tap-values.yaml` file, in the `ootb_supply_chain_*.gitops.ssh_secret ` section,
   specify the name of the Git secret that contains the credentials. This is necessary for the
   supply chain to include the `secretRef` when creating the Flux `GitRepository` resource.
   Here is an example:

  ```yaml
  ootb_supply_chain_testing_scanning:
    gitops:
      ssh_secret: git  # Replace with the actual name of your Git secret for the workload, if different
  ```

  By providing this configuration, the supply chain associates the created GitRepository
  resource with the specified Git secret managed by the Namespace Provisioner.

Commit message:

Add important note for airgap
Signed-off-by: Diego Alfonso <dalfonso@vmware.com>

namespace-provisioner/use-case3.hbs.md, after:

# Work with private Git Repositories

This topic tells you how to use private Git repositories for storing your GitOps based installation files, and the additional platform operator templated resources that you want to create in your developer namespace.

## <a id= 'git-private'></a>Git Authentication for using a private Git repository

Authentication is provided using a secret in the `tap-namespace-provisioning` namespace, or an existing secret in another namespace referred to in the secretRef in the `additional_sources`. For more details, see [Customize Installation of Namespace Provisioner](customize-installation.hbs.md).

### Create the Git Authentication secret in tap-namespace-provisioning namespace

The secrets for Git authentication allow the following keys: ssh-privatekey, ssh-knownhosts, username, and password. If ssh-knownhosts is not specified, Git does not perform strict host checking.

>**Important** In airgap environments where a custom CA cert is needed, it is important to configure kapp-controller with the specified CA cert. This ensures that X.508/X.509 certificate errors are avoided during operation. PLease refer to [Deploying Cluster Essentials](https://docs.vmware.com/en/Cluster-Essentials-for-VMware-Tanzu/1.6/cluster-essentials/deploy.html#deploy-onto-cluster-5)

1. Create the Git secret:

    Using HTTP(s) based Authentication
    : If you are using Username and Password for authentication:

      ```yaml
      cat << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Secret
      metadata:
        name: git-auth
        namespace: tap-namespace-provisioning
      type: Opaque
      stringData:
        username: GIT-USERNAME
        password: GIT-PASSWORD
      EOF
      ```

    Using SSH based Authentication
    : If you are using SSH private key for authentication:

      ```yaml
      cat << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Secret
      metadata:
        name: git-auth
        namespace: tap-namespace-provisioning
      type: Opaque
      stringData:
        ssh-privatekey: |
            -----BEGIN OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----
            ..
            -----END OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----
      EOF
      ```

2. Add the `secretRef` section to the `additional_sources` and the `gitops_install` section of your `tap-values.yaml` file:

    Using Namespace Provisioner Controller
    : Description

      ```yaml
      namespace_provisioner:
        controller: true
        additional_sources:
        - git:
            ref: origin/main
            subPath: sources
            # This example URL is for SSH auth. Use https:// path if using HTTPS auth
            url: git@github.com:private-repo-org/repo.git
            secretRef:
              name: git-auth
      ```

    Using GitOps
    : Description

      **Caution** There is a current limitation in kapp-controller which does not allow you to
      re-use the same Git secret multiple times. If you have multiple additional sources using private
      repositories with the same credentials, you must create different secrets with the same
      authentication details for each of them.

      In this example, the location where the list of namespaces resides is also a private repository. So you must create a secret named `git-auth-install` with the same authentication details.

      ```yaml
      namespace_provisioner:
        controller: false
        additional_sources:
        - git:
            ref: origin/main
            subPath: tekton-pipelines
            # This example URL is for SSH auth. Use https:// path if using HTTPS auth
            url: git@github.com:private-repo-org/repo.git
            secretRef:
              name: git-auth
        gitops_install:
          ref: origin/main
          subPath: gitops-install
          # This example URL is for SSH auth. Use https:// path if using HTTPS auth
          url: git@github.com:private-repo-org/repo.git
          secretRef:
            name: git-auth-install
      ```
<br>
### Import from another namespace

If you already have a Git secret created in a namespace other than `tap-namespace-provisioning`
namespace and you want to refer to that, the `secretRef` section should have the namespace
mentioned with the `create_export` flag. The default value for `create_export` is false
as it assumes the Secret is already exported for `tap-namespace-provisioning` namespace,
but allows you to specify if you want the Namespace Provisioner to create a
`Carvel SecretExport` for that secret.

The example refers to `git-auth` secret from `tap-install` in the secretRef section.

Using Namespace Provisioner Controller
: Description

  ```yaml
  namespace_provisioner:
    controller: true
    additional_sources:
    - git:
        ref: origin/main
        subPath: sources
        #! This example URL is for SSH auth. Use https:// path if using HTTPS auth
        url: git@github.com:private-repo-org/repo.git
        secretRef:
            name: git-auth
            namespace: tap-install
            #! If this secret is already exported for this namespace, you can ignore the create_export key as it defaults to false
            create_export: true
  ```

Using GitOps
: Description

  ```yaml
  namespace_provisioner:
    controller: false
    additional_sources:
    - git:
        ref: origin/main
        subPath: tekton-pipelines
        #! This example URL is for SSH auth. Use https:// path if using HTTPS auth
        url: git@github.com:private-repo-org/repo.git
        secretRef:
            name: git-auth
            namespace: tap-install
            #! If this secret is already exported for this namespace, you can ignore the create_export key as it defaults to false
            create_export: true
    gitops_install:
      ref: origin/main
      subPath: gitops-install
      #! This example URL is for SSH auth. Use https:// path if using HTTPS auth
      url: git@github.com:private-repo-org/repo.git
      secretRef:
        name: git-auth-install
        namespace: tap-install
        #! If this secret is already exported for this namespace, you can ignore the create_export key as it defaults to false
        create_export: true
  ```

After reconciling, Namespace Provisioner creates:

- [SecretExport](https://github.com/carvel-dev/secretgen-controller/blob/develop/docs/secret-export.md#secretexport) for the secret in the provided namespace (tap-install in the above example) to the Namespace Provisioner namespace.
- [SecretImport](https://github.com/carvel-dev/secretgen-controller/blob/develop/docs/secret-export.md#secretimport) for the secret in Namespace Provisioning namespace (tap-namespace-provisioning) so Carvel [secretgen-controller](https://github.com/carvel-dev/secretgen-controller) can create the required secret for the Namespace Provisioner to connect to the private Git repository.

## Git Authentication for Private Repository for Workloads and Supply chain

To either fetch or push source code from or to a repository that requires credentials,
you must provide those through a Kubernetes secret object referenced by the intended Kubernetes
object created for performing the action. The following sections provide details about how to
appropriately set up Kubernetes secrets for carrying those credentials forward to the proper resources.

This section provides instructions on how to configure the `default` service account to work with private Git repositories for workloads and supply chain using Namespace Provisioner.

To configure the service account to work with private Git repositories, follow the steps below:

1. Create a secret in the `tap-install` namespace or any namespace of your preference, that contains the Git credentials in YAML format.

   - `host`, `username`, and `password`, or `personal access token` values for HTTP based Git Authentication.
   - `ssh-privatekey, identity, identity_pub`, and `known_hosts` for SSH based Git Authentication.

    >**Note** The `stringData` key of the secret must have **.yaml** or **.yml** suffix at the end.

    Using HTTP(s) based Authentication
    : If using Username and Password for authentication.

      ```yaml
      cat << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Secret
      metadata:
        name: workload-git-auth
        namespace: tap-install
      type: Opaque
      stringData:
        content.yaml: |
          git:
            #! For HTTP Auth. Recommend using https:// for the git server.
            host: GIT-SERVER
            username: GIT-USERNAME
            password: GIT-PASSWORD
      EOF
      ```

    Using SSH based Authentication
    : If you are using SSH private key for authentication, create the Git secret with authentication details as follows:

      ```yaml
      cat << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Secret
      metadata:
        name: workload-git-auth
        namespace: tap-install
      type: Opaque
      stringData:
        content.yaml: |
          git:
            #! For SSH Auth
            ssh_privatekey: SSH-PRIVATE-KEY
            identity: SSH-PRIVATE-KEY
            identity_pub: SSH-PUBLIC-KEY
            known_hosts: GIT-SERVER-PUBLIC-KEYS
      EOF
      ```

2. To create a secret that will be added to the service account in the developer namespace within the GitOps repository, use this [example](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples/blob/main/ns-provisioner-samples/credentials/git.yaml) or follow the example provided below.

    Instead of directly including the actual user name and password in the Git repository secret, use
    the `data.values.imported` keys to add references to the values from the git-auth secret created in Step 1.

    This secret represents the actual Git secret that will be created by the Namespace Provisioner
    in each managed namespace. It should be included in your Git repository linked in the
    `additional_sources` section of `tap-values.yaml` mentioned in Step 4.

    ```yaml
    #@ load("@ytt:data", "data")
    ---
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Secret
    metadata:
      name: git
      annotations:
        tekton.dev/git-0: #@ data.values.imported.git.host
    type: kubernetes.io/basic-auth
    stringData:
      username: #@ data.values.imported.git.username
      password: #@ data.values.imported.git.password
    ```

3. Combine this `tap-values.yaml`:

    Using Namespace Provisioner Controller
    : Add the following configuration to `tap-values.yaml`:

      ```yaml
      namespace_provisioner:
        controller: true
        additional_sources:
        - git:
            ref: origin/main
            subPath: ns-provisioner-samples/credentials
            url: https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples.git
        import_data_values_secrets:
        - name: workload-git-auth
          namespace: tap-install
          create_export: true
        default_parameters:
          supply_chain_service_account:
            secrets:
            - git
      ```

    Using GitOps
    : Add the following configuration to `tap-values.yaml`:

      ```yaml
      namespace_provisioner:
        controller: false
        additional_sources:
        - git:
            ref: origin/main
            subPath: ns-provisioner-samples/credentials
            url: https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples.git
        gitops_install:
          ref: origin/main
          subPath: ns-provisioner-samples/gitops-install
          url: https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples.git
        import_data_values_secrets:
        - name: workload-git-auth
          namespace: tap-install
          create_export: true
        default_parameters:
          supply_chain_service_account:
            secrets:
            - git
      ```

   - First additional source points to the location where the templated Git secret resides which will
   be created in all developer namespaces.
   - Import the newly created `workload-git-auth` secret into Namespace Provisioner to use in
   `data.values.imported` by adding the secret to the `import_data_values_secrets`.
   - Add the secret to be added to the ServiceAccount in the `default_parameters`. For more
   information, see [Customize service accounts](use-case4.hbs.md#customize-sa).

   >**Note** `create_export` is set to `true` in `import_data_values_secrets`, as a result, a
   SecretExport is created for the `workload-git-auth` secret in the `tap-install` namespace
   automatically by Namespace Provisioner. After the changes are reconciled, the secret
   named **git ** is in all provisioned namespaces and is also added to the default service account of those namespaces.

4. In your `tap-values.yaml` file, in the `ootb_supply_chain_*.gitops.ssh_secret ` section,
   specify the name of the Git secret that contains the credentials. This is necessary for the
   supply chain to include the `secretRef` when creating the Flux `GitRepository` resource.
   Here is an example:

  ```yaml
  ootb_supply_chain_testing_scanning:
    gitops:
      ssh_secret: git  # Replace with the actual name of your Git secret for the workload, if different
  ```

  By providing this configuration, the supply chain associates the created GitRepository
  resource with the specified Git secret managed by the Namespace Provisioner.
