tekton/install-tekton.hbs.md, before:

# Install Tekton

This topic tells you how to install Tekton Pipelines from the Tanzu Application Platform package
repository.

> **Note** Follow the steps in this topic if you do not want to use a profile to install
> Tekton Pipelines.
> For more information about profiles, see
> [Components and installation profiles](../about-package-profiles.hbs.md).

## <a id='prereqs'></a>Prerequisites

Before installing Tekton Pipelines, complete all [prerequisites](../prerequisites.html) to install
Tanzu Application Platform.

## <a id='install-tekton-pipelines'></a> Install Tekton Pipelines

To install Tekton Pipelines:

1. See the Tekton Pipelines package versions available to install by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package available list -n tap-install tekton.tanzu.vmware.com
    ```

    For example:

    ```console
    $ tanzu package available list -n tap-install tekton.tanzu.vmware.com
    \ Retrieving package versions for tekton.tanzu.vmware.com...
      NAME                     VERSION  RELEASED-AT
      tekton.tanzu.vmware.com  0.30.0   2021-11-18 17:05:37Z
    ```

1. Install Tekton Pipelines by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package install tekton-pipelines -n tap-install -p tekton.tanzu.vmware.com -v VERSION
    ```

    Where `VERSION` is the desired version number. For example, `0.30.0`.

    For example:

    ```console
    $ tanzu package install tekton-pipelines -n tap-install -p tekton.tanzu.vmware.com -v 0.30.0
    - Installing package 'tekton.tanzu.vmware.com'
    \ Getting package metadata for 'tekton.tanzu.vmware.com'
    / Creating service account 'tekton-pipelines-tap-install-sa'
    / Creating cluster admin role 'tekton-pipelines-tap-install-cluster-role'
    / Creating cluster role binding 'tekton-pipelines-tap-install-cluster-rolebinding'
    / Creating package resource
    - Waiting for 'PackageInstall' reconciliation for 'tekton-pipelines'
    - 'PackageInstall' resource install status: Reconciling


     Added installed package 'tekton-pipelines'
    ```

1. Verify that you installed the package by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package installed get tekton-pipelines -n tap-install
    ```

    For example:

    ```console
    $ tanzu package installed get tekton-pipelines -n tap-install
    \ Retrieving installation details for tekton...
    NAME:                    tekton-pipelines
    PACKAGE-NAME:            tekton.tanzu.vmware.com
    PACKAGE-VERSION:         0.30.0
    STATUS:                  Reconcile succeeded
    CONDITIONS:              [{ReconcileSucceeded True  }]
    USEFUL-ERROR-MESSAGE:
    ```

    Verify that `STATUS` is `Reconcile succeeded`.

## <a id='config-namespace'></a> Configure a namespace to use Tekton Pipelines

This section covers configuring a namespace to run Tekton Pipelines.
If you rely on a SupplyChain to create Tekton PipelinesRuns in your cluster, skip this step because
namespace configuration is covered in
[Set up developer namespaces to use your installed packages](../install-online/set-up-namespaces.hbs.md).
Otherwise, perform the steps in this section for each namespace where you create Tekton Pipelines.

Service accounts that run Tekton workloads need access to the image pull secrets for the Tanzu package.
This includes the `default` service account in a namespace, which is created automatically but is
not associated with any image pull secrets.
Without these credentials, PipelineRuns fail with a timeout and the pods report that they cannot
pull images.

To configure a namespace to use Tekton Pipelines:

1. Create an image pull secret in the current namespace and fill it from the `tap-registry` secret.
For more information, see [Relocate images to a registry](../install-online/profile.hbs.md#add-tap-package-repo).

1. Create an empty secret, and annotate it as a target of the secretgen controller, by running:

    ```console
    kubectl create secret generic pull-secret --from-literal=.dockerconfigjson={} --type=kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson
    kubectl annotate secret pull-secret secretgen.carvel.dev/image-pull-secret=""
    ```

1. After you create a `pull-secret` secret in the same namespace as the service account, add the
secret to the service account by running:

    ```console
    kubectl patch serviceaccount default -p '{"imagePullSecrets": [{"name": "pull-secret"}]}'
    ```

1. Verify that a service account is correctly configured by running:

    ```console
    kubectl describe serviceaccount default
    ```

    For example:

    ```console
    kubectl describe sa default
    Name:                default
    Namespace:           default
    Labels:              <none>
    Annotations:         <none>
    Image pull secrets:  pull-secret
    Mountable secrets:   default-token-xh6p4
    Tokens:              default-token-xh6p4
    Events:              <none>
    ```

    > **Note** The service account has access to the `pull-secret` image pull secret.

For more details about Tekton Pipelines, see the [Tekton documentation](https://tekton.dev/docs/) and
the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline).

For information about getting started with Tekton, see the Tekton
[tutorial](https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/blob/main/docs/tutorial.md) in GitHub and the
[getting started guide](https://tekton.dev/docs/getting-started/) in the Tekton documentation.

> **Note** Windows workloads are deactivated and cause an error if any Tasks try to use Windows scripts.

Commit message:

Clarify the use of CA certificates in Flux, ESO, and Tekton

tekton/install-tekton.hbs.md, after:

# Install Tekton

This topic tells you how to install Tekton Pipelines from the Tanzu Application Platform package
repository.

> **Note** Follow the steps in this topic if you do not want to use a profile to install
> Tekton Pipelines.
> For more information about profiles, see
> [Components and installation profiles](../about-package-profiles.hbs.md).

## <a id='prereqs'></a>Prerequisites

Before installing Tekton Pipelines, complete all [prerequisites](../prerequisites.html) to install
Tanzu Application Platform.

## <a id='install-tekton-pipelines'></a> Install Tekton Pipelines

To install Tekton Pipelines:

1. See the Tekton Pipelines package versions available to install by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package available list -n tap-install tekton.tanzu.vmware.com
    ```

    For example:

    ```console
    $ tanzu package available list -n tap-install tekton.tanzu.vmware.com
    \ Retrieving package versions for tekton.tanzu.vmware.com...
      NAME                     VERSION  RELEASED-AT
      tekton.tanzu.vmware.com  0.30.0   2021-11-18 17:05:37Z
    ```

1. Install Tekton Pipelines by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package install tekton-pipelines -n tap-install -p tekton.tanzu.vmware.com -v VERSION
    ```

    Where `VERSION` is the desired version number. For example, `0.30.0`.

    For example:

    ```console
    $ tanzu package install tekton-pipelines -n tap-install -p tekton.tanzu.vmware.com -v 0.30.0
    - Installing package 'tekton.tanzu.vmware.com'
    \ Getting package metadata for 'tekton.tanzu.vmware.com'
    / Creating service account 'tekton-pipelines-tap-install-sa'
    / Creating cluster admin role 'tekton-pipelines-tap-install-cluster-role'
    / Creating cluster role binding 'tekton-pipelines-tap-install-cluster-rolebinding'
    / Creating package resource
    - Waiting for 'PackageInstall' reconciliation for 'tekton-pipelines'
    - 'PackageInstall' resource install status: Reconciling


     Added installed package 'tekton-pipelines'
    ```

1. Verify that you installed the package by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package installed get tekton-pipelines -n tap-install
    ```

    For example:

    ```console
    $ tanzu package installed get tekton-pipelines -n tap-install
    \ Retrieving installation details for tekton...
    NAME:                    tekton-pipelines
    PACKAGE-NAME:            tekton.tanzu.vmware.com
    PACKAGE-VERSION:         0.30.0
    STATUS:                  Reconcile succeeded
    CONDITIONS:              [{ReconcileSucceeded True  }]
    USEFUL-ERROR-MESSAGE:
    ```

    Verify that `STATUS` is `Reconcile succeeded`.

## <a id='config-namespace'></a> Configure a namespace to use Tekton Pipelines

This section covers configuring a namespace to run Tekton Pipelines.
If you rely on a SupplyChain to create Tekton PipelinesRuns in your cluster, skip this step because
namespace configuration is covered in
[Set up developer namespaces to use your installed packages](../install-online/set-up-namespaces.hbs.md).
Otherwise, perform the steps in this section for each namespace where you create Tekton Pipelines.

Service accounts that run Tekton workloads need access to the image pull secrets for the Tanzu package.
This includes the `default` service account in a namespace, which is created automatically but is
not associated with any image pull secrets.
Without these credentials, PipelineRuns fail with a timeout and the pods report that they cannot
pull images.

*NOTE*: If you are using a registry with a custom CA certificate then you must
provide this certificate to the Tekton directly by including the CA in the
service account used by the supply chain.  TAP's distribution of Tekton does
*not* support TAP's `shared.ca_cert_data` field.  For more information on
setting the CA in the service account see the document [Use Git authentication
with Supply Chain Choreographer](../scc/git-auth.hbs.md).

To configure a namespace to use Tekton Pipelines:

1. Create an image pull secret in the current namespace and fill it from the `tap-registry` secret.
For more information, see [Relocate images to a registry](../install-online/profile.hbs.md#add-tap-package-repo).

1. Create an empty secret, and annotate it as a target of the secretgen controller, by running:

    ```console
    kubectl create secret generic pull-secret --from-literal=.dockerconfigjson={} --type=kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson
    kubectl annotate secret pull-secret secretgen.carvel.dev/image-pull-secret=""
    ```

1. After you create a `pull-secret` secret in the same namespace as the service account, add the
secret to the service account by running:

    ```console
    kubectl patch serviceaccount default -p '{"imagePullSecrets": [{"name": "pull-secret"}]}'
    ```

1. Verify that a service account is correctly configured by running:

    ```console
    kubectl describe serviceaccount default
    ```

    For example:

    ```console
    kubectl describe sa default
    Name:                default
    Namespace:           default
    Labels:              <none>
    Annotations:         <none>
    Image pull secrets:  pull-secret
    Mountable secrets:   default-token-xh6p4
    Tokens:              default-token-xh6p4
    Events:              <none>
    ```

    > **Note** The service account has access to the `pull-secret` image pull secret.

For more details about Tekton Pipelines, see the [Tekton documentation](https://tekton.dev/docs/) and
the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline).

For information about getting started with Tekton, see the Tekton
[tutorial](https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/blob/main/docs/tutorial.md) in GitHub and the
[getting started guide](https://tekton.dev/docs/getting-started/) in the Tekton documentation.

> **Note** Windows workloads are deactivated and cause an error if any Tasks try to use Windows scripts.
