install-gitops/intro.hbs.md, before:

# Install Tanzu Application Platform (GitOps)

GitOps is an operational framework that uses Git repositories as a single source of truth.
Under GitOps, you describe the desired state of a Tanzu Application Platform (commonly known as TAP) 
configuration by using a declarative specification and place it in your Git repository.

>**Caution** Tanzu Application Platform (GitOps) is currently in beta and is intended for evaluation and test purposes only. Do not use in a production environment.

{{#unless vars.hide_content}}
<!-- TODO: this release is ready for production use in a specific set of conditions, review these conditions to see if your situation qualifies
  - general GitOps benefits/wants
  - if you want a simple instance and can store sensitive data encrypted ni your git repo ==> #SOPS
  - if you need to store secrest in external store blah blah... => #ESO

-->
{{/unless}}

Choose one of the following install paths to install Tanzu Application Platform on your Kubernetes clusters through GitOps:

GitOps with Secrets OPerationS (SOPS)
: Applies to the scenario when you want a simple instance and store sensitive data encrypted in your Git repo:

    |Step|Task|Link|
    |----|----|----|
    |1.| Review the prerequisites to ensure you have met all requirements before installing. |[Prerequisites](../prerequisites.hbs.md)|
    |2.| Accept Tanzu Application Platform EULAs and install the Tanzu CLI. |[Accept Tanzu Application Platform EULAs and installing the Tanzu CLI](../install-tanzu-cli.hbs.md)|
    |3.| Install Cluster Essentials for Tanzu*. |[Deploy Cluster Essentials](https://docs.vmware.com/en/Cluster-Essentials-for-VMware-Tanzu/{{ vars.url_version }}/cluster-essentials/deploy.html)|
    |4.| Install Tanzu Application Platform. |[Install Tanzu Application Platform through Gitops with Secrets OPerationS (SOPS)](sops.hbs.md)
    |5.| (Optional) Install any additional packages that were not in the profile. |[Install individual packages](components.hbs.md)|
    |6.| Set up developer namespaces to use your installed packages. |[Set up developer namespaces to use your installed packages](set-up-namespaces.hbs.md)|
    |7.| Install developer tools into your integrated development environment (IDE). |[Install Tanzu Developer Tools for your VS Code](vscode-install.hbs.md)|

GitOps with External Secrets Operator (ESO)
: Applies to the scenario when you want to store sensitive data in external store:

    <!-- ... "Supported on AWS Secrets Manager" ... -->

    |Step|Task|Link|
    |----|----|----|
    |1.| Review the prerequisites to ensure you have met all requirements before installing. |[Prerequisites](../prerequisites.hbs.md)|
    |2.| Accept Tanzu Application Platform EULAs and install the Tanzu CLI. |[Accept Tanzu Application Platform EULAs and installing the Tanzu CLI](../install-tanzu-cli.hbs.md)|
    |3.| Create AWS Resources (EKS Cluster, roles, etc)|[Create AWS Resources](../install-aws/resources.hbs.md)|
    |4.| Install Cluster Essentials for Tanzu*. |[Deploy Cluster Essentials](https://docs.vmware.com/en/Cluster-Essentials-for-VMware-Tanzu/{{ vars.url_version }}/cluster-essentials/deploy.html)|
    |5.| Add the Tanzu Application Platform package repository, prepare your Tanzu Application Platform profile, and install the profile to the cluster. |[Install Tanzu Application Platform through GitOps with External Secrets Operator (ESO)](eso.hbs.md)|
    |6.| (Optional) Install any additional packages that were not in the profile. |[Install individual packages](components.hbs.md)|
    |7.| Set up developer namespaces to use your installed packages. |[Set up developer namespaces to use your installed packages](set-up-namespaces.hbs.md)|
    |8.| Install developer tools into your integrated development environment (IDE). |[Install Tanzu Developer Tools for your VS Code](vscode-install.hbs.md)|

\* _When you use a VMware Tanzu Kubernetes Grid cluster, there is no need to install Cluster Essentials because the contents of Cluster Essentials are already installed on your cluster._

After installing Tanzu Application Platform on to your Kubernetes clusters, proceed with [Get started with Tanzu Application Platform](../getting-started.hbs.md).

Commit message:

Add install aws-secrets-manager page

install-gitops/intro.hbs.md, after:

# Install Tanzu Application Platform (GitOps)

GitOps is an operational framework that uses Git repositories as a single source of truth.
Under GitOps, you describe the desired state of a Tanzu Application Platform (commonly known as TAP) 
configuration by using a declarative specification and place it in your Git repository.

>**Caution** Tanzu Application Platform (GitOps) is currently in beta and is intended for evaluation and test purposes only. Do not use in a production environment.

{{#unless vars.hide_content}}
<!-- TODO: this release is ready for production use in a specific set of conditions, review these conditions to see if your situation qualifies
  - general GitOps benefits/wants
  - if you want a simple instance and can store sensitive data encrypted ni your git repo ==> #SOPS
  - if you need to store secrest in external store blah blah... => #ESO

-->
{{/unless}}

Choose one of the following install paths to install Tanzu Application Platform on your Kubernetes clusters through GitOps:

GitOps with Secrets OPerationS (SOPS)
: Applies to the scenario when you want a simple instance and store sensitive data encrypted in your Git repo:

    |Step|Task|Link|
    |----|----|----|
    |1.| Review the prerequisites to ensure you have met all requirements before installing. |[Prerequisites](../prerequisites.hbs.md)|
    |2.| Accept Tanzu Application Platform EULAs and install the Tanzu CLI. |[Accept Tanzu Application Platform EULAs and installing the Tanzu CLI](../install-tanzu-cli.hbs.md)|
    |3.| Install Cluster Essentials for Tanzu*. |[Deploy Cluster Essentials](https://docs.vmware.com/en/Cluster-Essentials-for-VMware-Tanzu/{{ vars.url_version }}/cluster-essentials/deploy.html)|
    |4.| Install Tanzu Application Platform. |[Install Tanzu Application Platform through Gitops with Secrets OPerationS (SOPS)](sops.hbs.md)
    |5.| (Optional) Install any additional packages that were not in the profile. |[Install individual packages](components.hbs.md)|
    |6.| Set up developer namespaces to use your installed packages. |[Set up developer namespaces to use your installed packages](set-up-namespaces.hbs.md)|
    |7.| Install developer tools into your integrated development environment (IDE). |[Install Tanzu Developer Tools for your VS Code](vscode-install.hbs.md)|

GitOps with AWS Secrets Manager on EKS
: Applies to the scenario when you want to store sensitive data in external store:

    |Step|Task|Link|
    |----|----|----|
    |1.| Review the prerequisites to ensure you have met all requirements before installing. |[Prerequisites](../prerequisites.hbs.md)|
    |2.| Accept Tanzu Application Platform EULAs and install the Tanzu CLI. |[Accept Tanzu Application Platform EULAs and installing the Tanzu CLI](../install-tanzu-cli.hbs.md)|
    |3.| Create AWS Resources (EKS Cluster, roles, etc)|[Create AWS Resources](../install-aws/resources.hbs.md)|
    |4.| Install Cluster Essentials for Tanzu*. |[Deploy Cluster Essentials](https://docs.vmware.com/en/Cluster-Essentials-for-VMware-Tanzu/{{ vars.url_version }}/cluster-essentials/deploy.html)|
    |5.| Add the Tanzu Application Platform package repository, prepare your Tanzu Application Platform profile, and install the profile to the cluster. |[Install Tanzu Application Platform through GitOps using AWS Secrets Manager](aws-secrets-manager.hbs.md)|
    |6.| (Optional) Install any additional packages that were not in the profile. |[Install individual packages](components.hbs.md)|
    |7.| Set up developer namespaces to use your installed packages. |[Set up developer namespaces to use your installed packages](set-up-namespaces.hbs.md)|
    |8.| Install developer tools into your integrated development environment (IDE). |[Install Tanzu Developer Tools for your VS Code](vscode-install.hbs.md)|

GitOps with Hashicorp Vault
: Applies to the scenario when you want to store sensitive data in external store:

    |Step|Task|Link|
    |----|----|----|
    |1.| Review the prerequisites to ensure you have met all requirements before installing. |[Prerequisites](../prerequisites.hbs.md)|
    |2.| Accept Tanzu Application Platform EULAs and install the Tanzu CLI. |[Accept Tanzu Application Platform EULAs and installing the Tanzu CLI](../install-tanzu-cli.hbs.md)|
    |4.| Install Cluster Essentials for Tanzu*. |[Deploy Cluster Essentials](https://docs.vmware.com/en/Cluster-Essentials-for-VMware-Tanzu/{{ vars.url_version }}/cluster-essentials/deploy.html)|
    |5.| Add the Tanzu Application Platform package repository, prepare your Tanzu Application Platform profile, and install the profile to the cluster. |[Install Tanzu Application Platform through GitOps using Hashicorp Vault](vault.hbs.md)|
    |6.| (Optional) Install any additional packages that were not in the profile. |[Install individual packages](components.hbs.md)|
    |7.| Set up developer namespaces to use your installed packages. |[Set up developer namespaces to use your installed packages](set-up-namespaces.hbs.md)|
    |8.| Install developer tools into your integrated development environment (IDE). |[Install Tanzu Developer Tools for your VS Code](vscode-install.hbs.md)|

\* _When you use a VMware Tanzu Kubernetes Grid cluster, there is no need to install Cluster Essentials because the contents of Cluster Essentials are already installed on your cluster._

After installing Tanzu Application Platform on to your Kubernetes clusters, proceed with [Get started with Tanzu Application Platform](../getting-started.hbs.md).
