install-gitops/sops.hbs.md, before:

# Install Tanzu Application Platform through Gitops with Secrets OPerationS (SOPS)

This topic tells you how to install Tanzu Application Platform (commonly known as TAP) 
through GitOps with secrets managed in a Git repository.

>**Caution**
>
> - Tanzu Application Platform (GitOps) is currently in beta and is intended for evaluation and test purposes only. Do not use in a production environment.
> - Tanzu GitOps Reference Implementation (RI) does not support changing the secrets management strategy for a cluster.

## <a id='prereqs'></a>Prerequisites

Before installing Tanzu Application Platform, you need:

<!-- TODO: link to download instructions -->

- **SOPS CLI** to view and edit SOPS encrypted files.
To install the SOPS CLI, see [SOPS documentation](https://github.com/mozilla/sops/releases) in GitHub.
- **Age CLI** to create an ecryption key used to encrypt and decrypt sensitive data.
To install the Age CLI, see [age documentation](https://github.com/FiloSottile/age#installation) in GitHub.
- Completed the [Prerequisites](../prerequisites.hbs.md).
- [Accepted Tanzu Application Platform EULA and installed Tanzu CLI](../install-tanzu-cli.hbs.md) with any required plug-ins.
- Installed [Cluster Essentials for Tanzu](https://{{ vars.staging_toggle }}.vmware.com/en/Cluster-Essentials-for-VMware-Tanzu/{{ vars.url_version }}/cluster-essentials/deploy.html).

## <a id='relocate-images-to-a-registry'></a> Relocate images to a registry

VMware recommends relocating the images from VMware Tanzu Network registry to your own container image registry before
attempting installation. If you don't relocate the images, Tanzu Application Platform depends on
VMware Tanzu Network for continued operation, and VMware Tanzu Network offers no uptime guarantees.
The option to skip relocation is documented for evaluation and proof-of-concept only.

The supported registries are Harbor, Azure Container Registry, Google Container Registry,
and Quay.io.
See the following documentation for a registry to learn how to set it up:

- [Harbor documentation](https://goharbor.io/docs/2.5.0/)
- [Google Container Registry documentation](https://cloud.google.com/container-registry/docs)
- [Quay.io documentation](https://docs.projectquay.io/welcome.html)

To relocate images from the VMware Tanzu Network registry to your registry:

1. Set up environment variables for installation use by running:

    ```console
    # Set tanzunet as the source registry to copy the Tanzu Application Platform packages from.
    export IMGPKG_REGISTRY_HOSTNAME_0=registry.tanzu.vmware.com
    export IMGPKG_REGISTRY_USERNAME_0=MY-TANZUNET-USERNAME
    export IMGPKG_REGISTRY_PASSWORD_0=MY-TANZUNET-PASSWORD

    # The user’s registry for copying the Tanzu Application Platform package to.
    export IMGPKG_REGISTRY_HOSTNAME_1=MY-REGISTRY
    export IMGPKG_REGISTRY_USERNAME_1=MY-REGISTRY-USER
    export IMGPKG_REGISTRY_PASSWORD_1=MY-REGISTRY-PASSWORD
    # These environment variables starting with IMGPKG_* are used by the imgpkg command only.

    # The registry from which the Tanzu Application Platform package is retrieved.
    export INSTALL_REGISTRY_USERNAME=MY-REGISTRY-USER
    export INSTALL_REGISTRY_PASSWORD=MY-REGISTRY-PASSWORD
    export INSTALL_REGISTRY_HOSTNAME=MY-REGISTRY
    export TAP_VERSION=VERSION-NUMBER
    export INSTALL_REPO=TARGET-REPOSITORY
    ```

    Where:

    - `MY-REGISTRY-USER` is the user with write access to `MY-REGISTRY`.
    - `MY-REGISTRY-PASSWORD` is the password for `MY-REGISTRY-USER`.
    - `MY-REGISTRY` is your own container image registry.
    - `MY-TANZUNET-USERNAME` is the user with access to the images in the VMware Tanzu Network registry `registry.tanzu.vmware.com`.
    - `MY-TANZUNET-PASSWORD` is the password for `MY-TANZUNET-USERNAME`.
    - `VERSION-NUMBER` is your Tanzu Application Platform version. For example, `{{ vars.tap_version }}`.
    - `TARGET-REPOSITORY` is your target repository, a folder or repository on `MY-REGISTRY` that serves as the location for the installation files for Tanzu Application Platform.

    VMware recommends using a JSON key file to authenticate with Google Container Registry.
    In this case, the value of `INSTALL_REGISTRY_USERNAME` is `_json_key` and
    the value of `INSTALL_REGISTRY_PASSWORD` is the content of the JSON key file.
    For more information about how to generate the JSON key file,
    see [Google Container Registry documentation](https://cloud.google.com/container-registry/docs/advanced-authentication).

1. [Install the Carvel tool `imgpkg` CLI](https://{{ vars.staging_toggle }}.vmware.com/en/Cluster-Essentials-for-VMware-Tanzu/{{ vars.url_version }}/cluster-essentials/deploy.html#optionally-install-clis-onto-your-path).

    To query for the available versions of Tanzu Application Platform on VMWare Tanzu Network Registry, run:

    ```console
    imgpkg tag list -i registry.tanzu.vmware.com/tanzu-application-platform/tap-packages | sort -V
    ```

1. Relocate the images with the `imgpkg` CLI by running:

    ```console
    imgpkg copy -b registry.tanzu.vmware.com/tanzu-application-platform/tap-packages:${TAP_VERSION} --to-repo ${INSTALL_REGISTRY_HOSTNAME}/${INSTALL_REPO}/tap-packages
    ```

## <a id='initialize-git-repository'></a>Create a new Git repository

Follow these steps to create a new Git repository:

1. In a hosted Git service, for example, GitHub or GitLab, create a new respository.

    This version of Tanzu GitOps RI supports authenticating to a hosted Git repository by using SSH as well as Basic Authentication.

1. Initialize a new Git repository:

    ```console
    mkdir -p $HOME/tap-gitops
    cd $HOME/tap-gitops

    git init
    git remote add origin git@github.com:my-organization/tap-gitops.git
    ```

1. Set up the authentication method:

    SSH
    : Create a read-only deploy key for this new repository (recommended) or SSH key for an account with read access to this repository. The private portion of this key is referred to as `GIT_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY`.

    Basic Authentication
    : Have a username with read access to the Git repository and password or personal access token for the same user.

    >**Important** Only use one of `ssh` or `Basic Authentication`, not both.

## <a id='download-tanzu-gitops-ri'></a>Download and unpack Tanzu GitOps Reference Implementation (RI)

1. Sign in to [VMware Tanzu Network](https://network.tanzu.vmware.com).
1. Go to the [Tanzu Application Platform product page](https://network.tanzu.vmware.com/products/tanzu-application-platform).
1. Select **Release {{ vars.tap_version }}** from the release drop-down menu.
1. Click **Tanzu GitOps Reference Implementation**.
1. Unpack the downloaded TGZ file into the `$HOME/tap-gitops` directory by running:

    ```console
    tar xvf tanzu-gitops-ri-*.tgz -C $HOME/tap-gitops
    ```

1. Commit the initial state:

    ```console
    cd $HOME/tap-gitops

    git add . && git commit -m "Initialize Tanzu GitOps RI"
    git push -u origin
    ```

## <a id='create-cluster-config'></a>Create cluster configuration

1. Seed configuration for a cluster using SOPS:

    ```console
    cd $HOME/tap-gitops

    ./setup-repo.sh CLUSTER-NAME sops
    ```

    Where:

    - `CLUSTER-NAME` the name of your cluster.
    - `sops` selects the Secrets OPerationS-based secrets management variant.

    Example:

    ```console
    cd $HOME/tap-gitops

    ./setup-repo.sh full-tap-cluster sops
    Created cluster configuration in ./clusters/full-tap-cluster.
    ...
    ```

    This script creates the directory `clusters/full-tap-cluster/` and copies in the
    configuration required to sync this Git repository with the cluster and installing Tanzu Application Platform.

1. Commit and push:

    ```console
    git add . && git commit -m "Add full-tap-cluster"
    git push
    ```

## <a id='tap-config'></a>Configure Tanzu Application Platform

Tanzu Sync Reference Implementation (RI) splits the values configuration of Tanzu Application Platform into two categories:

- Sensitive TAP values, for example, credentials, encryptions keys and so on.
- Non-sensitive TAP values, for example, packages to exclude, namespace configuration and so on.

The following sections describe how to create these values files.

## <a id='prep-sensitive-tap-values'></a>Prepare the sensitive Tanzu Application Platform values

Follow these steps to prepare the sensitive Tanzu Application Platform values:

1. Generate Age public or secrets keys:

    >**Note** Skip this step if you already have an Age key to encrypt or decrypt secrets.

    ```console
    mkdir -p $HOME/tmp-enc
    chmod 700 $HOME/tmp-enc
    cd $HOME/tmp-enc

    age-keygen -o key.txt

    cat key.txt
    # created: 2023-02-08T10:55:35-07:00
    # public key: age1ql3z7hjy54pw3hyww5ayyfg7zqgvc7w3j2elw8zmrj2kg5sfn9aqmcac8p
    AGE-SECRET-KEY-my-secret-key
    ```

1. Create a plain YAML file `tap-sensitive-values.yaml` outside of your Git repository that contains a placeholder for the sensitive portion of the Tanzu Application Platform values:

    ```yaml
    ---
    tap_install:
      sensitive_values:
    ```

1. Encrypt `tap-sensitive-values.yaml` with Age using SOPS:

    ```console
    export SOPS_AGE_RECIPIENTS=$(cat key.txt | grep "# public key: " | sed 's/# public key: //')
    sops --encrypt tap-sensitive-values.yaml > tap-sensitive-values.sops.yaml
    ```

    Where:

    - `grep` is used to find the line containing the public key portion of the generated secret.
    - `sed` is used to extract the public key from the line found by `grep`.

1. (Optional) Verify the encrypted file can be decrypted:

    ```console
    export SOPS_AGE_KEY_FILE=key.txt
    sops --decrypt tap-sensitive-values.sops.yaml
    ```

    (Optional) Verify the encrypted file can be edited directly by using SOPS:

    ```console
    sops tap-sensitive-values.sops.yaml
    ```

1. Move the sensitive Tanzu Application Platform values into the cluster config:

    ```console
    mv tap-sensitive-values.sops.yaml <GIT-REPO-ROOT>/clusters/<CLUSTER-NAME>/cluster-config/values/
    ```

    Example:

    ```console
    mv tap-sensitive-values.sops.yaml $HOME/tap-gitops/clusters/full-tap-cluster/cluster-config/values/
    ```

1. (Optional) Retain the Age identity key file in a safe and secure place such as a password manager,
and purge the scratch space:

    ```console
    mv key.txt SAFE-LOCATION/
    export SOPS_AGE_KEY_FILE=SAFE-LOCATION/key.txt
    rm -rf $HOME/tmp-enc
    ```

## <a id='prep-non-sensitive-tap-values'></a> Prepare the non-sensitive Tanzu Application Platform values

Create a plain YAML file `<GIT-REPO-ROOT>/clusters/<CLUSTER-NAME>/cluster-config/values/tap-non-sensitive-values.yaml` by using the [Full Profile sample](../install-online/profile.hbs.md#full-profile) as a guide:

Example:

```yaml
---
tap_install:
  values:
    ceip_policy_disclosed: true
    excluded_packages:
    - policy.apps.tanzu.vmware.com
...
```

For more information, see [Components and installation profiles](../about-package-profiles.hbs.md).

## <a id='update-sensitive-tap-values'></a> Update the sensitive Tanzu Application Platform values

After filling in the non-sensitive values, follow these steps to extract the sensitive values
into `tap-sensitive-values.sops.yaml` that you prepared earlier:

1. Open an editor through SOPS to edit the encrypted sensitive values file:

    ```console
    sops <GIT-REPO-ROOT>/clusters/<CLUSTER-NAME>/cluster-config/values/tap-sensitive-values.sops.yaml
    ```

    Example:

    ```console
    sops $HOME/tap-gitops/clusters/full-tap-cluster/cluster-config/values/tap-sensitive-values.sops.yaml
    ```

1. Add the sensitive values:

    Example of the container registry credentials using basic authentication:

    ```yaml
    ---
    tap_install:
     sensitive_values:
       shared:
         image_registry:
           project_path: "example.com/my-project/tap"
           username: "my_username"
           password: "my_password"
    ```

    Example of the container registry credentials using Google Container Registry:

    ```yaml
    ---
    tap_install:
     sensitive_values:
      shared:
        image_registry:
           project_path: "gcr.io/my-project/tap"
           username: "_json_key"
           password: |
             {
               "type": "service_account",
               "project_id": "my-project",
               "private_key_id": "my-private-key-id",
               "private_key": "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\n..........\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n",
               ...
             }
    ```

## <a id='prep-sensitive-tanzu-sync-values'></a>Prepare the sensitive Tanzu Sync values

Follow these steps to prepare the sensitive Tanzu Sync values:

1. Create a plain YAML file `tanzu-sync-values.yaml` outside of your Git repository that contains a placeholder for the sensitive portion of Tanzu Sync values:

    ```yaml
    ---
    secrets:
        sops:
    ```

1. Encrypt `tanzu-sync-values.yaml` with Age using SOPS:

    ```console
    export SOPS_AGE_RECIPIENTS=$(cat key.txt | grep "# public key: " | sed 's/# public key: //')
    sops --encrypt tanzu-sync-values.yaml > tanzu-sync-values.sops.yaml
    ```

    Where:

    - `grep` is used to find the line containing the public key portion of the generated secret.
    - `sed` is used to extract the public key from the line found by `grep`.

1. Move the encrypted sensitive Tanzu Application Platform values into the Tanzu Sync config:

    ```console
    mv tanzu-sync-values.sops.yaml <GIT-REPO-ROOT>/clusters/<CLUSTER-NAME>/tanzu-sync/app/sensitive-values/tanzu-sync-values.sops.yaml
    ```

    Example:

    ```console
    mv tanzu-sync-values.sops.yaml $HOME/tap-gitops/clusters/full-tap-cluster/tanzu-sync/app/sensitive-values/tanzu-sync-values.sops.yaml
    ```

## <a id='update-sensitive-tanzu-sync-values'></a> Update the sensitive Tanzu Sync values

Follow these steps to populate `tap-sensitive-values.sops.yaml` with credentials:

1. Open an editor and use SOPS to edit the encrypted sensitive values file:

    ```console
    sops <<GIT-REPO-ROOT>/clusters/<CLUSTER-NAME>/tanzu-sync/app/sensitive-values/tanzu-sync-values.sops.yaml
    ```

    Example:

    ```console
    sops $HOME/tap-gitops/clusters/full-tap-cluster/tanzu-sync/app/sensitive-values/tanzu-sync-values.sops.yaml
    ```

1. Add the sensitive values:

    Example of the container registry credentials using basic authentication:

    ```yaml
    ---
    secrets:
        sops:
            age_key: |
                AGE-KEY
            registry:
                hostname: MY-REGISTRY
                username: MY-REGISTRY-USER
                password: MY-REGISTRY-PASSWORD
            git:
                # Only use one of `ssh` or `basic_auth`, not both.
                ssh:
                    private_key: |
                        PRIVATE-KEY
                    known_hosts: |
                        HOST-LIST
                basic_auth:
                    username: MY-GIT-USERNAME
                    password: MY-GIT-PASSWORD
    ```

    Where:

    - `AGE-KEY` is the contents of the Age key generated earlier.
    - `MY-REGISTRY` is your container image registry.
    - `MY-REGISTRY-USER` is the user with read access to `MY-REGISTRY`.
    - `MY-REGISTRY-PASSWORD` is the password for `MY-REGISTRY-USER`.
    - `PRIVATE-KEY` is the contents of an SSH private key file with read access to your Git repository. Only applies when you use `ssh`.
    - `HOST-LIST` is the list of known hosts for Git host service. Only applies when you use `ssh`.
    - `MY-GIT-USERNAME` is the user with read access to your Git repository. Only applies when you use `basic_auth`.
    - `MY-GIT-PASSWORD` is the password or personal access token for `MY-GIT-USERNAME`. Only applies when you use `basic_auth`.

    You can find the schema for Tanzu Sync credentials in `<GIT-REPO-ROOT>/clusters/<CLUSTER-NAME>/tanzu-sync/app/config/.tanzu-managed/schema--sops.yaml`

## <a id='generate-tap-config'></a>Generate Tanzu Application Platform installation and Tanzu Sync configuration

Follow these steps to generate the Tanzu Application Platform installation and Tanzu Sync configuration:

1. Set up environment variables by running:

    ```console
    export TAP_PKGR_REPO=TAP-PACKAGE-OCI-REPOSITORY
    ```

    Where:

    - `TAP-PACKAGE-OCI-REPOSITORY` is the fully-qualified path to the OCI repository hosting the Tanzu Application Platform images.
    If the images are relocated as described in [Relocate images to a registry](#relocate-images-to-a-registry),
    this value is `${INSTALL_REGISTRY_HOSTNAME}/${INSTALL_REPO}/tap-packages`.

    Example of the Git repo hosted on GitHub:

    ```console
    export TAP_PKGR_REPO=registry.tanzu.vmware.com/tanzu-application-platform/tap-packages
    ```

1. Generate the Tanzu Application Platform install and the Tanzu Sync configuration files by using the provided script:

    ```console
    cd <GIT-REPO-ROOT>/clusters/<CLUSTER-NAME>

    ./tanzu-sync/scripts/configure.sh
    ```

    Example:

    ```console
    cd $HOME/tap-gitops/clusters/full-tap-cluster

    ./tanzu-sync/scripts/configure.sh
    ```

1. Commit the generated configured to Git repository:

    ```console
    git add cluster-config/ tanzu-sync/
    git commit -m "Configure install of TAP 1.6.1"
    git push
    ```

## <a id='deploy-tanzu-sync'></a>Deploy Tanzu Sync

Follow these steps to deploy Tanzu Sync:

1. Install the Carvel tools `kapp` and `ytt` onto your `$PATH`:

    ```console
    sudo cp $HOME/tanzu-cluster-essentials/kapp /usr/local/bin/kapp
    sudo cp $HOME/tanzu-cluster-essentials/ytt /usr/local/bin/ytt
    ```

1. Set the Kubernetes cluster context.

    1. List the existing contexts:

        ```console
        kubectl config get-contexts
        ```

    1. Set the context to the cluster that you want to deploy:

        ```console
        kubectl config use-context CONTEXT-NAME
        ```

        Where `CONTEXT-NAME` can be retrieved from the outputs of the previous step.

1. Deploy the Tanzu Sync component:

    ```console
    cd GIT-REPO-ROOT/clusters/CLUSTER-NAME

    ./tanzu-sync/scripts/deploy.sh
    ```

    Example:

    ```console
    cd $HOME/tap-gitops/clusters/full-tap-cluster

    ./tanzu-sync/scripts/deploy.sh
    ```

    >**Note**
    >
    > Depending on the profile and components included, it may take 5-10 minutes for Tanzu Application Platform to install.
    > During this time, `kapp` waits for the deployment of Tanzu Sync to reconcile successfully. This is normal.

Commit message:

Removing basic auth from gitops sops
Signed-off-by: rohitagg2020 <rohit.aggarwal2020@gmail.com>

install-gitops/sops.hbs.md, after:

# Install Tanzu Application Platform through Gitops with Secrets OPerationS (SOPS)

This topic tells you how to install Tanzu Application Platform (commonly known as TAP) 
through GitOps with secrets managed in a Git repository.

>**Caution**
>
> - Tanzu Application Platform (GitOps) is currently in beta and is intended for evaluation and test purposes only. Do not use in a production environment.
> - Tanzu GitOps Reference Implementation (RI) does not support changing the secrets management strategy for a cluster.

## <a id='prereqs'></a>Prerequisites

Before installing Tanzu Application Platform, you need:

<!-- TODO: link to download instructions -->

- **SOPS CLI** to view and edit SOPS encrypted files.
To install the SOPS CLI, see [SOPS documentation](https://github.com/mozilla/sops/releases) in GitHub.
- **Age CLI** to create an ecryption key used to encrypt and decrypt sensitive data.
To install the Age CLI, see [age documentation](https://github.com/FiloSottile/age#installation) in GitHub.
- Completed the [Prerequisites](../prerequisites.hbs.md).
- [Accepted Tanzu Application Platform EULA and installed Tanzu CLI](../install-tanzu-cli.hbs.md) with any required plug-ins.
- Installed [Cluster Essentials for Tanzu](https://{{ vars.staging_toggle }}.vmware.com/en/Cluster-Essentials-for-VMware-Tanzu/{{ vars.url_version }}/cluster-essentials/deploy.html).

## <a id='relocate-images-to-a-registry'></a> Relocate images to a registry

VMware recommends relocating the images from VMware Tanzu Network registry to your own container image registry before
attempting installation. If you don't relocate the images, Tanzu Application Platform depends on
VMware Tanzu Network for continued operation, and VMware Tanzu Network offers no uptime guarantees.
The option to skip relocation is documented for evaluation and proof-of-concept only.

The supported registries are Harbor, Azure Container Registry, Google Container Registry,
and Quay.io.
See the following documentation for a registry to learn how to set it up:

- [Harbor documentation](https://goharbor.io/docs/2.5.0/)
- [Google Container Registry documentation](https://cloud.google.com/container-registry/docs)
- [Quay.io documentation](https://docs.projectquay.io/welcome.html)

To relocate images from the VMware Tanzu Network registry to your registry:

1. Set up environment variables for installation use by running:

    ```console
    # Set tanzunet as the source registry to copy the Tanzu Application Platform packages from.
    export IMGPKG_REGISTRY_HOSTNAME_0=registry.tanzu.vmware.com
    export IMGPKG_REGISTRY_USERNAME_0=MY-TANZUNET-USERNAME
    export IMGPKG_REGISTRY_PASSWORD_0=MY-TANZUNET-PASSWORD

    # The user’s registry for copying the Tanzu Application Platform package to.
    export IMGPKG_REGISTRY_HOSTNAME_1=MY-REGISTRY
    export IMGPKG_REGISTRY_USERNAME_1=MY-REGISTRY-USER
    export IMGPKG_REGISTRY_PASSWORD_1=MY-REGISTRY-PASSWORD
    # These environment variables starting with IMGPKG_* are used by the imgpkg command only.

    # The registry from which the Tanzu Application Platform package is retrieved.
    export INSTALL_REGISTRY_USERNAME=MY-REGISTRY-USER
    export INSTALL_REGISTRY_PASSWORD=MY-REGISTRY-PASSWORD
    export INSTALL_REGISTRY_HOSTNAME=MY-REGISTRY
    export TAP_VERSION=VERSION-NUMBER
    export INSTALL_REPO=TARGET-REPOSITORY
    ```

    Where:

    - `MY-REGISTRY-USER` is the user with write access to `MY-REGISTRY`.
    - `MY-REGISTRY-PASSWORD` is the password for `MY-REGISTRY-USER`.
    - `MY-REGISTRY` is your own container image registry.
    - `MY-TANZUNET-USERNAME` is the user with access to the images in the VMware Tanzu Network registry `registry.tanzu.vmware.com`.
    - `MY-TANZUNET-PASSWORD` is the password for `MY-TANZUNET-USERNAME`.
    - `VERSION-NUMBER` is your Tanzu Application Platform version. For example, `{{ vars.tap_version }}`.
    - `TARGET-REPOSITORY` is your target repository, a folder or repository on `MY-REGISTRY` that serves as the location for the installation files for Tanzu Application Platform.

    VMware recommends using a JSON key file to authenticate with Google Container Registry.
    In this case, the value of `INSTALL_REGISTRY_USERNAME` is `_json_key` and
    the value of `INSTALL_REGISTRY_PASSWORD` is the content of the JSON key file.
    For more information about how to generate the JSON key file,
    see [Google Container Registry documentation](https://cloud.google.com/container-registry/docs/advanced-authentication).

1. [Install the Carvel tool `imgpkg` CLI](https://{{ vars.staging_toggle }}.vmware.com/en/Cluster-Essentials-for-VMware-Tanzu/{{ vars.url_version }}/cluster-essentials/deploy.html#optionally-install-clis-onto-your-path).

    To query for the available versions of Tanzu Application Platform on VMWare Tanzu Network Registry, run:

    ```console
    imgpkg tag list -i registry.tanzu.vmware.com/tanzu-application-platform/tap-packages | sort -V
    ```

1. Relocate the images with the `imgpkg` CLI by running:

    ```console
    imgpkg copy -b registry.tanzu.vmware.com/tanzu-application-platform/tap-packages:${TAP_VERSION} --to-repo ${INSTALL_REGISTRY_HOSTNAME}/${INSTALL_REPO}/tap-packages
    ```

## <a id='initialize-git-repository'></a>Create a new Git repository

Follow these steps to create a new Git repository:

1. In a hosted Git service, for example, GitHub or GitLab, create a new respository.

    This version of Tanzu GitOps RI supports authenticating to a hosted Git repository by using SSH.

2. Initialize a new Git repository:

    ```console
    mkdir -p $HOME/tap-gitops
    cd $HOME/tap-gitops

    git init
    git remote add origin git@github.com:my-organization/tap-gitops.git
    ```

3. Set up the authentication method:

    SSH
    : Create a read-only deploy key for this new repository (recommended) or SSH key for an account with read access to this repository. The private portion of this key is referred to as `GIT_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY`.

## <a id='download-tanzu-gitops-ri'></a>Download and unpack Tanzu GitOps Reference Implementation (RI)

1. Sign in to [VMware Tanzu Network](https://network.tanzu.vmware.com).
1. Go to the [Tanzu Application Platform product page](https://network.tanzu.vmware.com/products/tanzu-application-platform).
1. Select **Release {{ vars.tap_version }}** from the release drop-down menu.
1. Click **Tanzu GitOps Reference Implementation**.
1. Unpack the downloaded TGZ file into the `$HOME/tap-gitops` directory by running:

    ```console
    tar xvf tanzu-gitops-ri-*.tgz -C $HOME/tap-gitops
    ```

1. Commit the initial state:

    ```console
    cd $HOME/tap-gitops

    git add . && git commit -m "Initialize Tanzu GitOps RI"
    git push -u origin
    ```

## <a id='create-cluster-config'></a>Create cluster configuration

1. Seed configuration for a cluster using SOPS:

    ```console
    cd $HOME/tap-gitops

    ./setup-repo.sh CLUSTER-NAME sops
    ```

    Where:

    - `CLUSTER-NAME` the name of your cluster.
    - `sops` selects the Secrets OPerationS-based secrets management variant.

    Example:

    ```console
    cd $HOME/tap-gitops

    ./setup-repo.sh full-tap-cluster sops
    Created cluster configuration in ./clusters/full-tap-cluster.
    ...
    ```

    This script creates the directory `clusters/full-tap-cluster/` and copies in the
    configuration required to sync this Git repository with the cluster and installing Tanzu Application Platform.

1. Commit and push:

    ```console
    git add . && git commit -m "Add full-tap-cluster"
    git push
    ```

## <a id='tap-config'></a>Configure Tanzu Application Platform

Tanzu Sync Reference Implementation (RI) splits the values configuration of Tanzu Application Platform into two categories:

- Sensitive TAP values, for example, credentials, encryptions keys and so on.
- Non-sensitive TAP values, for example, packages to exclude, namespace configuration and so on.

The following sections describe how to create these values files.

## <a id='prep-sensitive-tap-values'></a>Prepare the sensitive Tanzu Application Platform values

Follow these steps to prepare the sensitive Tanzu Application Platform values:

1. Generate Age public or secrets keys:

    >**Note** Skip this step if you already have an Age key to encrypt or decrypt secrets.

    ```console
    mkdir -p $HOME/tmp-enc
    chmod 700 $HOME/tmp-enc
    cd $HOME/tmp-enc

    age-keygen -o key.txt

    cat key.txt
    # created: 2023-02-08T10:55:35-07:00
    # public key: age1ql3z7hjy54pw3hyww5ayyfg7zqgvc7w3j2elw8zmrj2kg5sfn9aqmcac8p
    AGE-SECRET-KEY-my-secret-key
    ```

1. Create a plain YAML file `tap-sensitive-values.yaml` outside of your Git repository that contains a placeholder for the sensitive portion of the Tanzu Application Platform values:

    ```yaml
    ---
    tap_install:
      sensitive_values:
    ```

1. Encrypt `tap-sensitive-values.yaml` with Age using SOPS:

    ```console
    export SOPS_AGE_RECIPIENTS=$(cat key.txt | grep "# public key: " | sed 's/# public key: //')
    sops --encrypt tap-sensitive-values.yaml > tap-sensitive-values.sops.yaml
    ```

    Where:

    - `grep` is used to find the line containing the public key portion of the generated secret.
    - `sed` is used to extract the public key from the line found by `grep`.

1. (Optional) Verify the encrypted file can be decrypted:

    ```console
    export SOPS_AGE_KEY_FILE=key.txt
    sops --decrypt tap-sensitive-values.sops.yaml
    ```

    (Optional) Verify the encrypted file can be edited directly by using SOPS:

    ```console
    sops tap-sensitive-values.sops.yaml
    ```

1. Move the sensitive Tanzu Application Platform values into the cluster config:

    ```console
    mv tap-sensitive-values.sops.yaml <GIT-REPO-ROOT>/clusters/<CLUSTER-NAME>/cluster-config/values/
    ```

    Example:

    ```console
    mv tap-sensitive-values.sops.yaml $HOME/tap-gitops/clusters/full-tap-cluster/cluster-config/values/
    ```

1. (Optional) Retain the Age identity key file in a safe and secure place such as a password manager,
and purge the scratch space:

    ```console
    mv key.txt SAFE-LOCATION/
    export SOPS_AGE_KEY_FILE=SAFE-LOCATION/key.txt
    rm -rf $HOME/tmp-enc
    ```

## <a id='prep-non-sensitive-tap-values'></a> Prepare the non-sensitive Tanzu Application Platform values

Create a plain YAML file `<GIT-REPO-ROOT>/clusters/<CLUSTER-NAME>/cluster-config/values/tap-non-sensitive-values.yaml` by using the [Full Profile sample](../install-online/profile.hbs.md#full-profile) as a guide:

Example:

```yaml
---
tap_install:
  values:
    ceip_policy_disclosed: true
    excluded_packages:
    - policy.apps.tanzu.vmware.com
...
```

For more information, see [Components and installation profiles](../about-package-profiles.hbs.md).

## <a id='update-sensitive-tap-values'></a> Update the sensitive Tanzu Application Platform values

After filling in the non-sensitive values, follow these steps to extract the sensitive values
into `tap-sensitive-values.sops.yaml` that you prepared earlier:

1. Open an editor through SOPS to edit the encrypted sensitive values file:

    ```console
    sops <GIT-REPO-ROOT>/clusters/<CLUSTER-NAME>/cluster-config/values/tap-sensitive-values.sops.yaml
    ```

    Example:

    ```console
    sops $HOME/tap-gitops/clusters/full-tap-cluster/cluster-config/values/tap-sensitive-values.sops.yaml
    ```

1. Add the sensitive values:

    Example of the container registry credentials using basic authentication:

    ```yaml
    ---
    tap_install:
     sensitive_values:
       shared:
         image_registry:
           project_path: "example.com/my-project/tap"
           username: "my_username"
           password: "my_password"
    ```

    Example of the container registry credentials using Google Container Registry:

    ```yaml
    ---
    tap_install:
     sensitive_values:
      shared:
        image_registry:
           project_path: "gcr.io/my-project/tap"
           username: "_json_key"
           password: |
             {
               "type": "service_account",
               "project_id": "my-project",
               "private_key_id": "my-private-key-id",
               "private_key": "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\n..........\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n",
               ...
             }
    ```

## <a id='prep-sensitive-tanzu-sync-values'></a>Prepare the sensitive Tanzu Sync values

Follow these steps to prepare the sensitive Tanzu Sync values:

1. Create a plain YAML file `tanzu-sync-values.yaml` outside of your Git repository that contains a placeholder for the sensitive portion of Tanzu Sync values:

    ```yaml
    ---
    secrets:
        sops:
    ```

1. Encrypt `tanzu-sync-values.yaml` with Age using SOPS:

    ```console
    export SOPS_AGE_RECIPIENTS=$(cat key.txt | grep "# public key: " | sed 's/# public key: //')
    sops --encrypt tanzu-sync-values.yaml > tanzu-sync-values.sops.yaml
    ```

    Where:

    - `grep` is used to find the line containing the public key portion of the generated secret.
    - `sed` is used to extract the public key from the line found by `grep`.

1. Move the encrypted sensitive Tanzu Application Platform values into the Tanzu Sync config:

    ```console
    mv tanzu-sync-values.sops.yaml <GIT-REPO-ROOT>/clusters/<CLUSTER-NAME>/tanzu-sync/app/sensitive-values/tanzu-sync-values.sops.yaml
    ```

    Example:

    ```console
    mv tanzu-sync-values.sops.yaml $HOME/tap-gitops/clusters/full-tap-cluster/tanzu-sync/app/sensitive-values/tanzu-sync-values.sops.yaml
    ```

## <a id='update-sensitive-tanzu-sync-values'></a> Update the sensitive Tanzu Sync values

Follow these steps to populate `tap-sensitive-values.sops.yaml` with credentials:

1. Open an editor and use SOPS to edit the encrypted sensitive values file:

    ```console
    sops <<GIT-REPO-ROOT>/clusters/<CLUSTER-NAME>/tanzu-sync/app/sensitive-values/tanzu-sync-values.sops.yaml
    ```

    Example:

    ```console
    sops $HOME/tap-gitops/clusters/full-tap-cluster/tanzu-sync/app/sensitive-values/tanzu-sync-values.sops.yaml
    ```

1. Add the sensitive values:

    Example of the container registry credentials using basic authentication:

    ```yaml
    ---
    secrets:
        sops:
            age_key: |
                AGE-KEY
            registry:
                hostname: MY-REGISTRY
                username: MY-REGISTRY-USER
                password: MY-REGISTRY-PASSWORD
            git:
                ssh:
                    private_key: |
                        PRIVATE-KEY
                    known_hosts: |
                        HOST-LIST
    ```

    Where:

    - `AGE-KEY` is the contents of the Age key generated earlier.
    - `MY-REGISTRY` is your container image registry.
    - `MY-REGISTRY-USER` is the user with read access to `MY-REGISTRY`.
    - `MY-REGISTRY-PASSWORD` is the password for `MY-REGISTRY-USER`.
    - `PRIVATE-KEY` is the contents of an SSH private key file with read access to your Git repository. Only applies when you use `ssh`.
    - `HOST-LIST` is the list of known hosts for Git host service. Only applies when you use `ssh`.

    You can find the schema for Tanzu Sync credentials in `<GIT-REPO-ROOT>/clusters/<CLUSTER-NAME>/tanzu-sync/app/config/.tanzu-managed/schema--sops.yaml`

## <a id='generate-tap-config'></a>Generate Tanzu Application Platform installation and Tanzu Sync configuration

Follow these steps to generate the Tanzu Application Platform installation and Tanzu Sync configuration:

1. Set up environment variables by running:

    ```console
    export TAP_PKGR_REPO=TAP-PACKAGE-OCI-REPOSITORY
    export SOPS_AGE_KEY=AGE-KEY
    ```

    Where:

    - `TAP-PACKAGE-OCI-REPOSITORY` is the fully-qualified path to the OCI repository hosting the Tanzu Application Platform images.
    If the images are relocated as described in [Relocate images to a registry](#relocate-images-to-a-registry),
    this value is `${INSTALL_REGISTRY_HOSTNAME}/${INSTALL_REPO}/tap-packages`.
    - `AGE-KEY` is the contents of the Age key generated earlier.

    Example of the Git repo hosted on GitHub:

    ```console
    export TAP_PKGR_REPO=registry.tanzu.vmware.com/tanzu-application-platform/tap-packages
    export SOPS_AGE_KEY=$(cat $HOME/tmp-enc/key.txt)
    ```

1. Generate the Tanzu Application Platform install and the Tanzu Sync configuration files by using the provided script:

    ```console
    cd <GIT-REPO-ROOT>/clusters/<CLUSTER-NAME>

    ./tanzu-sync/scripts/configure.sh
    ```

    Example:

    ```console
    cd $HOME/tap-gitops/clusters/full-tap-cluster

    ./tanzu-sync/scripts/configure.sh
    ```

1. Commit the generated configured to Git repository:

    ```console
    git add cluster-config/ tanzu-sync/
    git commit -m "Configure install of TAP 1.6.1"
    git push
    ```

## <a id='deploy-tanzu-sync'></a>Deploy Tanzu Sync

Follow these steps to deploy Tanzu Sync:

1. Install the Carvel tools `kapp` and `ytt` onto your `$PATH`:

    ```console
    sudo cp $HOME/tanzu-cluster-essentials/kapp /usr/local/bin/kapp
    sudo cp $HOME/tanzu-cluster-essentials/ytt /usr/local/bin/ytt
    ```

1. Set the Kubernetes cluster context.

    1. List the existing contexts:

        ```console
        kubectl config get-contexts
        ```

    1. Set the context to the cluster that you want to deploy:

        ```console
        kubectl config use-context CONTEXT-NAME
        ```

        Where `CONTEXT-NAME` can be retrieved from the outputs of the previous step.

1. Deploy the Tanzu Sync component:

    ```console
    cd GIT-REPO-ROOT/clusters/CLUSTER-NAME

    ./tanzu-sync/scripts/deploy.sh
    ```

    Example:

    ```console
    cd $HOME/tap-gitops/clusters/full-tap-cluster

    ./tanzu-sync/scripts/deploy.sh
    ```

    >**Note**
    >
    > Depending on the profile and components included, it may take 5-10 minutes for Tanzu Application Platform to install.
    > During this time, `kapp` waits for the deployment of Tanzu Sync to reconcile successfully. This is normal.
