scc/azure.hbs.md, before:

# Using Azure DevOps as a Git provider with your supply chains

This topic describes how to use Azure DevOps as a Git provider with your Supply Chain Choreographer supply chains.

There are two uses for Git in a supply chain:

- As a source of code to build and deploy applications
- As a repository of configuration created by the build cluster which is deployed on a run or production cluster

Azure DevOps differs from other Git providers in the following ways:

- Azure DevOps requires Git clients to support multi-ack.
- Azure DevOps repository paths differ from other Git providers.

For information about how Azure DevOps is different from other Git providers, see [Gitops write path templates](#gitops-write-temp).

The operator requires special configuration to integrate Azure DevOps repositories into a supply chain.

## <a id="repo-committed"></a> Using Azure DevOps as a repository for committed code

Developers can use Azure DevOps to commit source code to a repository that the
supply chain pulls.

### <a id="devops-example"></a> Azure DevOps example

The following example uses the Azure DevOps source repository:

`https://dev.azure.com/my-company/app/_git/app`

You can configure the supply chain by using `tap-values`:

```yaml
ootb_supply_chain_testing_scanning:
  git_implementation: libgit2
```

or by using workload parameter:

```yaml
apiVersion: carto.run/v1alpha1
kind: Workload
metadata:
  ...
spec:
  params:
    - name: gitImplementation
      value: libgit2
```

### <a id="config-git"></a> Configuring your Git implementation for Azure DevOps

The default configuration of the source controller does not use a Git
implementation compatible with Azure DevOps.

To resolve this, you must configure the [source-template's](ootb-template-reference.hbs.md#source-template) parameter
`gitImplementation` to `libgit2`. Use one of these options:

- Use the tap-value `git_implementation` to set the parameter
   for the supply chain. See [source-provider](ootb-supply-chain-reference.hbs.md#source-provider).
- Use the workload parameter `gitImplementation` to configure the parameter
   for the individual workload. See [Parameters](workload-reference.hbs.md#parameters).

If both methods are set and do not match, the workload's parameter is respected.

## <a id="using-gitops"></a> Using Azure DevOps as a GitOps repository

The supply chain commits Kubernetes configuration to a Git repository.
This configuration is then applied to another cluster. This is the GitOps
promotion pattern.

You must construct a path and configure your Git implementation to read and write to an Azure DevOps repository.

### <a id="gitops-write-ex"></a> GitOps write path example

The following example uses the Azure DevOps Git repository:

`https://dev.azure.com/vmware-tanzu/tap/_git/tap`

Set the `gitops_server_kind` workload params to `azure`.

  ```yaml
  apiVersion: carto.run/v1alpha1
  kind: Workload
  metadata:
    ...
  spec:
    params:
      - name: gitops_server_kind
        value: azure
      ...
  ```

  You can set other gitops values in either tap-values or in the workload params.

  - By using tap-values:

    ```yaml
    ootb_supply_chain_testing_scanning:
      gitops:
        server_address: https://dev.azure.com
        repository_owner: vmware-tanzu/tap
        repository_name: tap
    ```

  - By using the workload parameters:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: carto.run/v1alpha1
    kind: Workload
    metadata:
      ...
    spec:
      params:
        - name: gitops_server_address
          value: https://dev.azure.com
        - name: gitops_repository_owner
          value: vmware-tanzu/tap
        - name: gitops_repository_name
          value: tap
        - name: gitops_server_kind
          value: azure
        ...
    ```

### <a id="gitops-write-temp"></a> Gitops write path templates

Azure DevOps and Git use different URL structures.

For example, the Git clone URL of an Azure DevOps repository is structured as:

`https://dev.azure.com/<org_name>/<project_name>/_git/<repository_name>`

GitHub uses the following address structure:

`https://github.com/<org_name>/<repository_name>`

In Azure DevOps, a project can have multiple repositories, but the project name
and repository name are often the same.

The [config-writer](ootb-template-reference.hbs.md#config-writer-template) and
[config-writer-and-pull-requester](ootb-template-reference.hbs.md#config-writer-and-pull-requester-template) templates
accept three parameters to build the path of the repository. For Azure DevOps, configure them as follows:

- gitops_server_address: `https://dev.azure.com`
- gitops_repository_owner: `<org_name>/<project_name>`
- gitops_repository_name: `<repository_name>`

Configure the template parameters as follows:

- `gitops.server_address` tap-value during the Out of the Box Supply Chains package installation
  or `gitops_server_address` configured as a workload parameter.
- `gitops.repository_owner` tap-value during the Out of the Box Supply Chains package installation
  or `gitops_repository_owner` configured as a workload parameter.
- `gitops.repository_name` tap-value during the Out of the Box Supply Chains package installation
  or `gitops_repository_name` configured as a workload parameter.

To properly contruct the write path, the template parameter `gitops_server_kind` must be configured
as `azure`.

Configure`gitops_server_kind` as a workload parameter.

For information about configuring the GitOps write operations, see
[GitOps versus RegistryOps](gitops-vs-regops.hbs.md).

### <a id="gitops-read-ex"></a> Gitops read example

The following example uses the Azure DevOps GitOps repository:

`https://dev.azure.com/vmware-tanzu/tap/_git/tap`

You can configure the delivery tap-values:

```yaml
ootb_delivery_basic:
  git_implementation: libgit2
```

or the deliverable parameter:

```yaml
apiVersion: carto.run/v1alpha1
kind: Deliverable
metadata:
  ...
spec:
  params:
    - name: gitImplementation
      value: libgit2
```

### <a id="gitops-read-temp"></a> Gitops read implementation templates

Similar to [reading an Azure DevOps source repo](#using-azure-devops-as-a-repository-for-committed-code), when reading
an AzureDevOps GitOps repository, you must configure the Git implementation for the
[delivery-source-template](ootb-template-reference.hbs.md#delivery-source-template). This parameter's configuration
comes from the [delivery](ootb-delivery-reference.hbs.md) or the
[deliverable](ootb-template-reference.hbs.md#deliverable-template).

You can configure the delivery by using tap-values.

The supply chain creates the definition of a deliverable. Tanzu Application
Platform users are responsible for applying this definition to the run cluster.
Users can choose to add the
`gitImplementation` parameter to the deliverable.

Commit message:

Add info on authenticating to Azure Devops repos

scc/azure.hbs.md, after:

# Using Azure DevOps as a Git provider with your supply chains

This topic describes how to use Azure DevOps as a Git provider with your Supply Chain Choreographer supply chains.

There are two uses for Git in a supply chain:

- As a source of code to build and deploy applications
- As a repository of configuration created by the build cluster which is deployed on a run or production cluster

Azure DevOps differs from other Git providers in the following ways:

- Azure DevOps requires Git clients to support multi-ack.
- Azure DevOps repository paths differ from other Git providers.

For information about how Azure DevOps is different from other Git providers, see [Gitops write path templates](#gitops-write-temp).

The operator requires special configuration to integrate Azure DevOps repositories into a supply chain.

## <a id="Azure Auth"></a> Azure Authentication

Documentation for configuring secrets to authenticate with your Azure Devops git repository can be found
[here](./git-auth.hbs.md). Note that Azure http/s auth requires:
```yaml
username: "_token"
password: AZURE-USER-TOKEN
```

See Microsoft documentation for [Azure Devops Personal Access Tokens](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/organizations/accounts/use-personal-access-tokens-to-authenticate).

## <a id="repo-committed"></a> Using Azure DevOps as a repository for committed code

Developers can use Azure DevOps to commit source code to a repository that the
supply chain pulls.

### <a id="devops-example"></a> Azure DevOps example

The following example uses the Azure DevOps source repository:

`https://dev.azure.com/my-company/app/_git/app`

You can configure the supply chain by using `tap-values`:

```yaml
ootb_supply_chain_testing_scanning:
  git_implementation: libgit2
```

or by using workload parameter:

```yaml
apiVersion: carto.run/v1alpha1
kind: Workload
metadata:
  ...
spec:
  params:
    - name: gitImplementation
      value: libgit2
```

### <a id="config-git"></a> Configuring your Git implementation for Azure DevOps

The default configuration of the source controller does not use a Git
implementation compatible with Azure DevOps.

To resolve this, you must configure the [source-template's](ootb-template-reference.hbs.md#source-template) parameter
`gitImplementation` to `libgit2`. Use one of these options:

- Use the tap-value `git_implementation` to set the parameter
   for the supply chain. See [source-provider](ootb-supply-chain-reference.hbs.md#source-provider).
- Use the workload parameter `gitImplementation` to configure the parameter
   for the individual workload. See [Parameters](workload-reference.hbs.md#parameters).

If both methods are set and do not match, the workload's parameter is respected.

## <a id="using-gitops"></a> Using Azure DevOps as a GitOps repository

The supply chain commits Kubernetes configuration to a Git repository.
This configuration is then applied to another cluster. This is the GitOps
promotion pattern.

You must construct a path and configure your Git implementation to read and write to an Azure DevOps repository.

### <a id="gitops-write-ex"></a> GitOps write path example

The following example uses the Azure DevOps Git repository:

`https://dev.azure.com/vmware-tanzu/tap/_git/tap`

Set the `gitops_server_kind` workload params to `azure`.

  ```yaml
  apiVersion: carto.run/v1alpha1
  kind: Workload
  metadata:
    ...
  spec:
    params:
      - name: gitops_server_kind
        value: azure
      ...
  ```

  You can set other gitops values in either tap-values or in the workload params.

  - By using tap-values:

    ```yaml
    ootb_supply_chain_testing_scanning:
      gitops:
        server_address: https://dev.azure.com
        repository_owner: vmware-tanzu/tap
        repository_name: tap
    ```

  - By using the workload parameters:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: carto.run/v1alpha1
    kind: Workload
    metadata:
      ...
    spec:
      params:
        - name: gitops_server_address
          value: https://dev.azure.com
        - name: gitops_repository_owner
          value: vmware-tanzu/tap
        - name: gitops_repository_name
          value: tap
        - name: gitops_server_kind
          value: azure
        ...
    ```

### <a id="gitops-write-temp"></a> Gitops write path templates

Azure DevOps and Git use different URL structures.

For example, the Git clone URL of an Azure DevOps repository is structured as:

`https://dev.azure.com/<org_name>/<project_name>/_git/<repository_name>`

GitHub uses the following address structure:

`https://github.com/<org_name>/<repository_name>`

In Azure DevOps, a project can have multiple repositories, but the project name
and repository name are often the same.

The [config-writer](ootb-template-reference.hbs.md#config-writer-template) and
[config-writer-and-pull-requester](ootb-template-reference.hbs.md#config-writer-and-pull-requester-template) templates
accept three parameters to build the path of the repository. For Azure DevOps, configure them as follows:

- gitops_server_address: `https://dev.azure.com`
- gitops_repository_owner: `<org_name>/<project_name>`
- gitops_repository_name: `<repository_name>`

Configure the template parameters as follows:

- `gitops.server_address` tap-value during the Out of the Box Supply Chains package installation
  or `gitops_server_address` configured as a workload parameter.
- `gitops.repository_owner` tap-value during the Out of the Box Supply Chains package installation
  or `gitops_repository_owner` configured as a workload parameter.
- `gitops.repository_name` tap-value during the Out of the Box Supply Chains package installation
  or `gitops_repository_name` configured as a workload parameter.

To properly contruct the write path, the template parameter `gitops_server_kind` must be configured
as `azure`.

Configure`gitops_server_kind` as a workload parameter.

For information about configuring the GitOps write operations, see
[GitOps versus RegistryOps](gitops-vs-regops.hbs.md).

### <a id="gitops-read-ex"></a> Gitops read example

The following example uses the Azure DevOps GitOps repository:

`https://dev.azure.com/vmware-tanzu/tap/_git/tap`

You can configure the delivery tap-values:

```yaml
ootb_delivery_basic:
  git_implementation: libgit2
```

or the deliverable parameter:

```yaml
apiVersion: carto.run/v1alpha1
kind: Deliverable
metadata:
  ...
spec:
  params:
    - name: gitImplementation
      value: libgit2
```

### <a id="gitops-read-temp"></a> Gitops read implementation templates

Similar to [reading an Azure DevOps source repo](#using-azure-devops-as-a-repository-for-committed-code), when reading
an AzureDevOps GitOps repository, you must configure the Git implementation for the
[delivery-source-template](ootb-template-reference.hbs.md#delivery-source-template). This parameter's configuration
comes from the [delivery](ootb-delivery-reference.hbs.md) or the
[deliverable](ootb-template-reference.hbs.md#deliverable-template).

You can configure the delivery by using tap-values.

The supply chain creates the definition of a deliverable. Tanzu Application
Platform users are responsible for applying this definition to the run cluster.
Users can choose to add the
`gitImplementation` parameter to the deliverable.
