scc/carvel-package-supply-chain.hbs.md, before:

# Carvel Package Supply Chains (alpha)

This topic explains what Carvel Package Supply Chains do, how they work, how
operators can enable them, and how to create a `Workload` that uses them. You
can use the Carvel Package Supply Chains with Supply Chain Choreographer to
deliver applications to multiple production environments with configuration for
each environment.

The [Out of the Box Basic Supply Chain](ootb-supply-chain-basic.hbs.md) package
introduces a variation of the OOTB Basic supply chains that outputs Carvel
Packages.

## <a id="overview"></a> Overview of the Carvel Package Supply Chains

The traditional Out of the Box Supply Chain Basic Supply Chains outputs a
`Deliverable` object. These `Deliverable`s are deployed to a cluster by the Out
of the Box Delivery Supply Chain. The Carvel Package Supply Chains output a
Carvel `Package` object to a GitOps repository. These `Packages` have
configurable parameters such as `hostname` and `replicas` that are configured
per environment. GitOps tools such as FluxCD and ArgoCD can deploy the
`Package`s onto multiple environments.

> **Note** The underlying Kubernetes resources created for your `server`
> `Workload` are the same for `source-to-url` or `basic-image-to-url`, with the
> addition of a `networking.k8s.io/v1 Ingress` resource. For example,
> `Deployment`. The Carvel `Package` wraps these resources. You secure the
> `Ingress` by using the `cluster_issuer` `tap-ingress-selfsigned` by default.

### <a id="supply-chains-do"></a> What do the Carvel Package Supply Chains Do?

There are two Carvel Package Supply Chains, `source-to-url-package` and
`basic-image-to-url-package` in the Out of the Box Supply Chain Package. They
are identical to `source-to-url` and `basic-image-to-url`, except for three
resources:

- A new `carvel-package` resource is added. It stamps out a Tekton Task that
  bundles all application Kubernetes resources into a Carvel `Package`.
- `config-writer` is modified to write the Carvel `Package` to a GitOps
  repository.
- `deliverable` resource is removed.

When a `Workload` is created and all Supply Chain resources are stamped out, a
Carvel `Package` is written to the GitOps repository at the path
`<package_name>/packages/<package_id>.yaml`. `<package_name>` by default to
`<workload_name>.<workload_namespace>.tap`, and is customized with the
`name_suffix` parameter. `<package_id>` is a SemVer compatible version generated
by the Bash command `$(date "+%Y%m%d%H%M%S.0.0")`.

For example:

```console
app.default.tap/
  packages/
    20230321004057.0.0.yaml
```

>**Note** By default, the `<package_name>` directory is created in the root directory of the GitOps repository. You can optionally create this directory at a subpath by configuring the `gitops_subpath` parameter.

For example, the following Carvel `Package` definition is stored in `<package_id>.yaml`:

```yaml
apiVersion: data.packaging.carvel.dev/v1alpha1
kind: Package
metadata:
  name: app.default.tap.20230321004057.0.0
spec:
  refName: app.default.tap
  version: 20230321004057.0.0
  releaseNotes: |
    Release v20230321004057.0.0 of package app.default.tap
  template:
    spec:
      fetch:
      - imgpkgBundle:
          image: # imgpkg bundle containing all Kubernetes configuration
      template:
      - ytt:
          paths:
          - .
      - kbld:
          paths:
          - .imgpkg/images.yml
          - '-'
      deploy:
      - kapp: {}
  valuesSchema:
    openAPIv3:
      additionalProperties: false
      properties:
        cluster_issuer:
          default: tap-ingress-selfsigned
          description: CertManager Issuer to use to generate certificate for K8s Ingress.
          title: Cluster Issuer
          type: string
        hostname:
          default: ""
          description: If set, K8s Ingress will be created with HTTP rules for hostname.
          title: Hostname
          type: string
        port:
          default: 8080
          description: Port number for the backend associated with K8s Ingress.
          title: Port
          type: integer
        replicas:
          default: 1
          description: Number of replicas.
          title: Replicas
          type: integer
        workload_name:
          default: ""
          description: Required. Name of the workload, used by K8s Ingress HTTP rules.
          title: Workload name
          type: string
      type: object
```

By default, the Carvel `Package` generated by the Supply Chain has three configurable parameters:

`Server` workload type:

- `replicas`: Number of pods that you want for the `apps/v1 Deployment`. Default is `1`.
- `hostname`: Host name for the `networking.k8s.io/v1 Ingress`. If you don't need ingress, leave host name as an empty string. If host name is not in the file, you see an error.
- `port`: Port for the `networking.k8s.io/v1 Ingress`. Default is `8080`.

You can configure the Supply Chain to produce Carvel `Packages` with custom parameters. See the [installation section](#installation).

When a new commit is pushed to the source code Git Repository, such as
`source-to-url-package`, or a new pre-built image is created, like
`basic-image-to-url-package`, the Supply Chain stamps out a new version of the
Carvel `Package`. This definition is written to
`<package_name>/packages/<package_id>.yaml` with a new `<package_id>`.

The Carvel `Package` stored in GitOps repositories are deployed to multiple run
clusters using GitOps tools, such as FluxCD or ArgoCD. See [Deploy Carvel
Packages using FluxCD Kustomization](delivery-with-flux.hbs.md).

## <a id='carvel-package-operator'></a> Installing the Carvel Package Supply Chains as an Operator

This section describes operator tasks for enabling and configuring the Carvel Package Supply Chains.

### <a id="prerecs"></a> Prerequisites

The Carvel Package Supply Chains require access to a GitOps repository and credentials. See [GitOps versus RegistryOps](gitops-vs-regops.hbs.md#gitops).

### <a id='installation'></a> Installation

In `tap-values`, configure the [Out of the Box Basic Supply Chain](ootb-supply-chain-basic.hbs.md) and the [Out of the Box Templates](ootb-templates.hbs.md) package with the following parameters:

1. (Required) Enable the Carvel Package workflow.

    ```yaml
    ootb_supply_chain_basic:
      carvel_package:
        workflow_enabled: true
    ```

1. (Optional) Set a GitOps subpath. This verifies the path in your GitOps
   repository where Carvel Packages are written. Defaults to `""`. See [Template reference](ootb-template-reference.hbs.md#carvel).

    ```yaml
    ootb_supply_chain_basic:
      carvel_package:
        workflow_enabled: true
        gitops_subpath: path/to/my/dir
    ```

1. (Optional) Set a name suffix. Carvel Package names are chosen using the
   `<workload_name>.<workload_namespace>.<name_suffix>` template. Defaults to
   `tap`. See [Template reference](ootb-template-reference.hbs.md#carvel).

    ```yaml
    ootb_supply_chain_basic:
      carvel_package:
        workflow_enabled: true
        name_suffix: vmware.com
    ```

1. (Optional) Enable OpenAPIv3 Schema Definition Generation. Defaults to
   `true`. See [Template reference](ootb-template-reference.hbs.md#carvel).

    ```yaml
    ootb_supply_chain_basic:
      carvel_package:
        workflow_enabled: true
        openapiv3_enabled: true
    ```

  If the size of the resulting OpenAPIv3 specification exceeds a certain size, roughly 3 KB, the Supply Chain does not function. See the [known issue](../release-notes.hbs.md#1-6-0-tap-gui-ki).

1. (Optional) Configure the [Out of the Box Templates](ootb-templates.hbs.md) with custom Carvel Package parameters. See [Template reference](ootb-template-reference.hbs.md#carvel).

  - Packages created by the Carvel Package Supply Chains contain the [YTT
    Schema](https://carvel.dev/ytt/docs/v0.44.0/how-to-write-schema/) and [YTT
    Overlays](https://carvel.dev/ytt/docs/v0.44.0/ytt-overlays/).
    - Supply Chain decides which YTT Schema and YTT Overlays to use based on the
      `selector` field. Operators can specify as many labels as they want under
      `selector.matchLabels`. The `selector` with the highest amount of matching
      labels is used.
      - A `selector` is only considered a match if all labels under
        `selector.matchLabels` match. If there is more than one matching
        `selector`, the `selector` with more labels is used. If there is more
        than one matching `selector`, and they have the same amount of labels,
        the Supply Chain fails. If there is no matching `selector`, the Supply
        Chain fails.
  - The `ootb_templates.carvel_package.openapiv3_enabled = true`  
    package has a [generated OpenAPIv3
    API](https://carvel.dev/ytt/docs/v0.44.0/how-to-export-schema/)
    specification.
  - Setting `ootb_templates.carvel_package.parameters` overrides
    the default Carvel Package parameters. If an operator wants to leave the
    parameters the same for `web` and `worker` types, but add a parameter for
    `server`, they must copy the default
    `ootb_templates.carvel_package.parameters` from the template reference, and
    then make the modification.

    ```yaml
    ootb_templates:
      carvel_package:
        parameters:
        - selector:
            matchLabels:
              apps.tanzu.vmware.com/workload-type: server
          schema: |
            #@data/values-schema
            ---
            #@schema/title "Replicas"
            #@schema/desc "Number of replicas."
            replicas: 1
          overlays: |
            #@ load("@ytt:overlay", "overlay")
            #@ load("@ytt:data", "data")
            #@overlay/match by=overlay.subset({"apiVersion":"apps/v1", "kind": "Deployment"})
            ---
            spec:
              #@overlay/match missing_ok=True
              replicas: #@ data.values.replicas
    ```

2. Configure the [Out of the Box Basic Supply
   Chain](ootb-supply-chain-basic.hbs.md) package with your GitOps parameters.
   See [GitOps versus RegistryOps](gitops-vs-regops.hbs.md#gitops).

3. Install the [Out of the Box Basic Supply Chain](ootb-supply-chain-basic.hbs.md) package.

### <a id="verifying"></a> Verifying the Carvel Package Supply Chains are Installed

1. Run `kubectl get ClusterSupplyChains`.
2. Confirm you see both `source-to-url-package` and `basic-image-to-url-package` with status `Ready: True`.

## <a id='carvel-package-developer'></a> Using the Carvel Package Supply Chains as a Developer

This section describes developer tasks for using the Carvel Package Supply Chains.

### <a id="carvel-prerecs"></a> Prerequisites

Your operator must [install the Carvel Package Supply Chains](#carvel-package-operator).

You must create your workload in a developer namespace. See [Developer namespace](../install-online/set-up-namespaces.hbs.md).

### <a id="create-workload"></a> Create a Workload

To use the Carvel Package Supply Chains, you must add the label `apps.tanzu.vmware.com/carvel-package-workflow=true` to your workload.

1. Use the `--label apps.tanzu.vmware.com/carvel-package-workflow=true` Tanzu CLI flag.

  For example:

  ```console
  tanzu apps workload create tanzu-java-web-app \
    --namespace DEVELOPER_NAMESPACE \
    --app tanzu-java-web-app \
    --type server \
    --label apps.tanzu.vmware.com/carvel-package-workflow=true \
    --image springcommunity/spring-framework-petclinic
  ```

Expect to see the following output:

  ```console
  Create workload:
      1 + |---
      2 + |apiVersion: carto.run/v1alpha1
      3 + |kind: Workload
      4 + |metadata:
      5 + |  labels:
      6 + |    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: tanzu-java-web-app
      7 + |    apps.tanzu.vmware.com/carvel-package-workflow: "true"
      8 + |    apps.tanzu.vmware.com/workload-type: server
      9 + |  name: tanzu-java-web-app
     10 + |  namespace: DEVELOPER_NAMESPACE
     11 + |spec:
     12 + |  image: springcommunity/spring-framework-petclinic
  ```

  You can override most parameters set by the operator.

  > **Note** Developers cannot override `carvel_package_parameters` as it presents a security risk.

1. (Optional) Set a GitOps subpath. This verifies the path in your GitOps repository where Carvel Packages are written. Defaults to `""`. See [Template reference](ootb-template-reference.hbs.md#carvel).

  Set this parameter by modifying `workload.spec.params.carvel_package_gitops_subpath`, using the `--param carvel_package_gitops_subpath=path/to/my/dir` Tanzu CLI flag.

1. (Optional) Set a name suffix. Carvel Package names are chosen using the template `<workload_name>.<workload_namespace>.<name_suffix>`. Defaults to `tap`. See [Template reference](ootb-template-reference.hbs.md#carvel).

  Set this parameter by modifying `workload.spec.params.carvel_package_name_suffix`, using the `--param carvel_package_name_suffix=vmware.com` Tanzu CLI flag.

1. (Optional) Enable OpenAPIv3 specification generation. Defaults to `true`. See [Template reference](ootb-template-reference.hbs.md#carvel).

  Set this parameter by modifying `workload.spec.params.carvel_package_openapiv3_enabled`, using the `--param carvel_package_openapiv3_enabled=false` Tanzu CLI flag.

1. (Optional) You can override GitOps parameters. See [GitOps versus RegistryOps](gitops-vs-regops.hbs.md#gitops).

### <a id="verify-carvel"></a> Verify the Carvel Package was Created

Verify that you see a Carvel `Package` stored in your GitOps repository. For example, at the path `tanzu-java-web-app.default.tap/packages/20230321004057.0.0.yaml` you see a valid Carvel `Package` definition.

### <a id="git-sha"></a> Git commit SHA in Package version

By default, the Git revision identifier for the software in the Carvel Package is added to the package version, in the format `+build.${git_commit}`, in the following cases:

1. The `source-to-url-package` builds the package and the image building resource is either `kpack-template` or the `kaniko-template`. These templates add the label Git
commit SHA of the source code used to the label `org.opencontainers.image.revision` on the OCI image container.

1. An OCI image container is used with the label `org.opencontainers.image.revision`. The package version might look similar to `20230518150903.0.0+build.6db88c7` where `6db88c7` is the Git commit SHA.

### Next Steps

You can deploy the Carvel `Package` using tools such as FluxCD or ArgoCD. See [Deploy Carvel Packages using FluxCD Kustomization](delivery-with-flux.hbs.md).`

Commit message:

Document default parameters for worker + web types

scc/carvel-package-supply-chain.hbs.md, after:

# Carvel Package Supply Chains (alpha)

This topic explains what Carvel Package Supply Chains do, how they work, how
operators can enable them, and how to create a `Workload` that uses them. You
can use the Carvel Package Supply Chains with Supply Chain Choreographer to
deliver applications to multiple production environments with configuration for
each environment.

The [Out of the Box Basic Supply Chain](ootb-supply-chain-basic.hbs.md) package
introduces a variation of the OOTB Basic supply chains that outputs Carvel
Packages.

## <a id="overview"></a> Overview of the Carvel Package Supply Chains

The traditional Out of the Box Supply Chain Basic Supply Chains outputs a
`Deliverable` object. These `Deliverable`s are deployed to a cluster by the Out
of the Box Delivery Supply Chain. The Carvel Package Supply Chains output a
Carvel `Package` object to a GitOps repository. These `Packages` have
configurable parameters such as `hostname` and `replicas` that are configured
per environment. GitOps tools such as FluxCD and ArgoCD can deploy the
`Package`s onto multiple environments.

> **Note** The underlying Kubernetes resources created for your `server`
> `Workload` are the same for `source-to-url` or `basic-image-to-url`, with the
> optional addition of a `networking.k8s.io/v1 Ingress` resource. For example,
> `Deployment`. The Carvel `Package` wraps these resources. You secure the
> `Ingress` by using the `cluster_issuer` `tap-ingress-selfsigned` by default.

### <a id="supply-chains-do"></a> What do the Carvel Package Supply Chains Do?

There are two Carvel Package Supply Chains, `source-to-url-package` and
`basic-image-to-url-package` in the Out of the Box Supply Chain Package. They
are identical to `source-to-url` and `basic-image-to-url`, except for three
resources:

- A new `carvel-package` resource is added. It stamps out a Tekton Task that
  bundles all application Kubernetes resources into a Carvel `Package`.
- `config-writer` is modified to write the Carvel `Package` to a GitOps
  repository.
- `deliverable` resource is removed.

When a `Workload` is created and all Supply Chain resources are stamped out, a
Carvel `Package` is written to the GitOps repository at the path
`<package_name>/packages/<package_id>.yaml`. `<package_name>` by default to
`<workload_name>.<workload_namespace>.tap`, and is customized with the
`name_suffix` parameter. `<package_id>` is a SemVer compatible version generated
by the Bash command `$(date "+%Y%m%d%H%M%S.0.0")`.

For example:

```console
app.default.tap/
  packages/
    20230321004057.0.0.yaml
```

>**Note** By default, the `<package_name>` directory is created in the root directory of the GitOps repository. You can optionally create this directory at a subpath by configuring the `gitops_subpath` parameter.

For example, the following Carvel `Package` definition is stored in `<package_id>.yaml`:

```yaml
apiVersion: data.packaging.carvel.dev/v1alpha1
kind: Package
metadata:
  name: app.default.tap.20230321004057.0.0
spec:
  refName: app.default.tap
  version: 20230321004057.0.0
  releaseNotes: |
    Release v20230321004057.0.0 of package app.default.tap
  template:
    spec:
      fetch:
      - imgpkgBundle:
          image: # imgpkg bundle containing all Kubernetes configuration
      template:
      - ytt:
          paths:
          - .
      - kbld:
          paths:
          - .imgpkg/images.yml
          - '-'
      deploy:
      - kapp: {}
  valuesSchema:
    openAPIv3:
      additionalProperties: false
      properties:
        cluster_issuer:
          default: tap-ingress-selfsigned
          description: CertManager Issuer to use to generate certificate for K8s Ingress.
          title: Cluster Issuer
          type: string
        hostname:
          default: ""
          description: If set, K8s Ingress will be created with HTTP rules for hostname.
          title: Hostname
          type: string
        port:
          default: 8080
          description: Port number for the backend associated with K8s Ingress.
          title: Port
          type: integer
        replicas:
          default: 1
          description: Number of replicas.
          title: Replicas
          type: integer
        workload_name:
          default: ""
          description: Required. Name of the workload, used by K8s Ingress HTTP rules.
          title: Workload name
          type: string
      type: object
```

By default, the Carvel `Package` generated by the Supply Chain has configurable parameters.

For the `server` workload type, the default parameters are:

- `workload_name`: Name of the workload. Required. Default is `""`.
- `replicas`: Number of pods that you want for the `apps/v1 Deployment`. Default is `1`.
- `hostname`: Host name for the `networking.k8s.io/v1 Ingress`. If you don't need ingress, leave host name as an empty string. If host name is not in the file, you see an error.
- `port`: Port for the `networking.k8s.io/v1 Ingress`. Default is `8080`.
- `cluster_issuer`: CertManager Issuer to use to generate certificate for K8s `Ingress`. Default is `"tap-ingress-selfsigned"`.

For the `web` workload type, the default parameters are:

- `workload_name`: Name of the workload. Required. Default is `""`.

For the `worker` workload type, the default parameters are:

- `workload_name`: Name of the workload. Required. Default is `""`.
- `replicas`: Number of pods that you want for the `apps/v1 Deployment`. Default is `1`.

You can configure the Supply Chain to produce Carvel `Packages` with custom parameters. See the [installation section](#installation).

When a new commit is pushed to the source code Git Repository, such as
`source-to-url-package`, or a new pre-built image is created, like
`basic-image-to-url-package`, the Supply Chain stamps out a new version of the
Carvel `Package`. This definition is written to
`<package_name>/packages/<package_id>.yaml` with a new `<package_id>`.

The Carvel `Package` stored in GitOps repositories are deployed to multiple run
clusters using GitOps tools, such as FluxCD or ArgoCD. See [Deploy Carvel
Packages using FluxCD Kustomization](delivery-with-flux.hbs.md).

## <a id='carvel-package-operator'></a> Installing the Carvel Package Supply Chains as an Operator

This section describes operator tasks for enabling and configuring the Carvel Package Supply Chains.

### <a id="prerecs"></a> Prerequisites

The Carvel Package Supply Chains require access to a GitOps repository and credentials. See [GitOps versus RegistryOps](gitops-vs-regops.hbs.md#gitops).

### <a id='installation'></a> Installation

In `tap-values`, configure the [Out of the Box Basic Supply Chain](ootb-supply-chain-basic.hbs.md) and the [Out of the Box Templates](ootb-templates.hbs.md) package with the following parameters:

1. (Required) Enable the Carvel Package workflow.

    ```yaml
    ootb_supply_chain_basic:
      carvel_package:
        workflow_enabled: true
    ```

1. (Optional) Set a GitOps subpath. This verifies the path in your GitOps
   repository where Carvel Packages are written. Defaults to `""`. See [Template reference](ootb-template-reference.hbs.md#carvel).

    ```yaml
    ootb_supply_chain_basic:
      carvel_package:
        workflow_enabled: true
        gitops_subpath: path/to/my/dir
    ```

1. (Optional) Set a name suffix. Carvel Package names are chosen using the
   `<workload_name>.<workload_namespace>.<name_suffix>` template. Defaults to
   `tap`. See [Template reference](ootb-template-reference.hbs.md#carvel).

    ```yaml
    ootb_supply_chain_basic:
      carvel_package:
        workflow_enabled: true
        name_suffix: vmware.com
    ```

1. (Optional) Enable OpenAPIv3 Schema Definition Generation. Defaults to
   `true`. See [Template reference](ootb-template-reference.hbs.md#carvel).

    ```yaml
    ootb_supply_chain_basic:
      carvel_package:
        workflow_enabled: true
        openapiv3_enabled: true
    ```

    If the size of the resulting OpenAPIv3 specification exceeds a certain size, roughly 3 KB, the Supply Chain does not function. See the [known issue](../release-notes.hbs.md#1-6-0-tap-gui-ki).

1. (Optional) Configure the [Out of the Box Templates](ootb-templates.hbs.md) with custom Carvel Package parameters. See [Template reference](ootb-template-reference.hbs.md#carvel).

  - Packages created by the Carvel Package Supply Chains contain the [YTT
    Schema](https://carvel.dev/ytt/docs/v0.44.0/how-to-write-schema/) and [YTT
    Overlays](https://carvel.dev/ytt/docs/v0.44.0/ytt-overlays/).
    - Supply Chain decides which YTT Schema and YTT Overlays to use based on the
      `selector` field. Operators can specify as many labels as they want under
      `selector.matchLabels`. The `selector` with the highest amount of matching
      labels is used.
      - A `selector` is only considered a match if all labels under
        `selector.matchLabels` match. If there is more than one matching
        `selector`, the `selector` with more labels is used. If there is more
        than one matching `selector`, and they have the same amount of labels,
        the Supply Chain fails. If there is no matching `selector`, the Supply
        Chain fails.
  - The `ootb_templates.carvel_package.openapiv3_enabled = true`
    package has a [generated OpenAPIv3
    API](https://carvel.dev/ytt/docs/v0.44.0/how-to-export-schema/)
    specification.
  - Setting `ootb_templates.carvel_package.parameters` overrides
    the default Carvel Package parameters. If an operator wants to leave the
    parameters the same for `web` and `worker` types, but add a parameter for
    `server`, they must copy the default
    `ootb_templates.carvel_package.parameters` from the template reference, and
    then make the modification.

    ```yaml
    ootb_templates:
      carvel_package:
        parameters:
        - selector:
            matchLabels:
              apps.tanzu.vmware.com/workload-type: server
          schema: |
            #@data/values-schema
            ---
            #@schema/title "Replicas"
            #@schema/desc "Number of replicas."
            replicas: 1
          overlays: |
            #@ load("@ytt:overlay", "overlay")
            #@ load("@ytt:data", "data")
            #@overlay/match by=overlay.subset({"apiVersion":"apps/v1", "kind": "Deployment"})
            ---
            spec:
              #@overlay/match missing_ok=True
              replicas: #@ data.values.replicas
        # copy the existing parameters for worker + web here
    ```

2. Configure the [Out of the Box Basic Supply
   Chain](ootb-supply-chain-basic.hbs.md) package with your GitOps parameters.
   See [GitOps versus RegistryOps](gitops-vs-regops.hbs.md#gitops).

3. Install the [Out of the Box Basic Supply Chain](ootb-supply-chain-basic.hbs.md) package.

### <a id="verifying"></a> Verifying the Carvel Package Supply Chains are Installed

1. Run `kubectl get ClusterSupplyChains`.
2. Confirm you see both `source-to-url-package` and `basic-image-to-url-package` with status `Ready: True`.

## <a id='carvel-package-developer'></a> Using the Carvel Package Supply Chains as a Developer

This section describes developer tasks for using the Carvel Package Supply Chains.

### <a id="carvel-prerecs"></a> Prerequisites

Your operator must [install the Carvel Package Supply Chains](#carvel-package-operator).

You must create your workload in a developer namespace. See [Developer namespace](../install-online/set-up-namespaces.hbs.md).

### <a id="create-workload"></a> Create a Workload

To use the Carvel Package Supply Chains, you must add the label `apps.tanzu.vmware.com/carvel-package-workflow=true` to your workload.

1. Use the `--label apps.tanzu.vmware.com/carvel-package-workflow=true` Tanzu CLI flag.

  For example:

  ```console
  tanzu apps workload create tanzu-java-web-app \
    --namespace DEVELOPER_NAMESPACE \
    --app tanzu-java-web-app \
    --type server \
    --label apps.tanzu.vmware.com/carvel-package-workflow=true \
    --image springcommunity/spring-framework-petclinic
  ```

Expect to see the following output:

  ```console
  Create workload:
      1 + |---
      2 + |apiVersion: carto.run/v1alpha1
      3 + |kind: Workload
      4 + |metadata:
      5 + |  labels:
      6 + |    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: tanzu-java-web-app
      7 + |    apps.tanzu.vmware.com/carvel-package-workflow: "true"
      8 + |    apps.tanzu.vmware.com/workload-type: server
      9 + |  name: tanzu-java-web-app
     10 + |  namespace: DEVELOPER_NAMESPACE
     11 + |spec:
     12 + |  image: springcommunity/spring-framework-petclinic
  ```

  You can override most parameters set by the operator.

  > **Note** Developers cannot override `carvel_package_parameters` as it presents a security risk.

1. (Optional) Set a GitOps subpath. This verifies the path in your GitOps repository where Carvel Packages are written. Defaults to `""`. See [Template reference](ootb-template-reference.hbs.md#carvel).

  Set this parameter by modifying `workload.spec.params.carvel_package_gitops_subpath`, using the `--param carvel_package_gitops_subpath=path/to/my/dir` Tanzu CLI flag.

1. (Optional) Set a name suffix. Carvel Package names are chosen using the template `<workload_name>.<workload_namespace>.<name_suffix>`. Defaults to `tap`. See [Template reference](ootb-template-reference.hbs.md#carvel).

  Set this parameter by modifying `workload.spec.params.carvel_package_name_suffix`, using the `--param carvel_package_name_suffix=vmware.com` Tanzu CLI flag.

1. (Optional) Enable OpenAPIv3 specification generation. Defaults to `true`. See [Template reference](ootb-template-reference.hbs.md#carvel).

  Set this parameter by modifying `workload.spec.params.carvel_package_openapiv3_enabled`, using the `--param carvel_package_openapiv3_enabled=false` Tanzu CLI flag.

1. (Optional) You can override GitOps parameters. See [GitOps versus RegistryOps](gitops-vs-regops.hbs.md#gitops).

### <a id="verify-carvel"></a> Verify the Carvel Package was Created

Verify that you see a Carvel `Package` stored in your GitOps repository. For example, at the path `tanzu-java-web-app.default.tap/packages/20230321004057.0.0.yaml` you see a valid Carvel `Package` definition.

### <a id="git-sha"></a> Git commit SHA in Package version

By default, the Git revision identifier for the software in the Carvel Package is added to the package version, in the format `+build.${git_commit}`, in the following cases:

1. The `source-to-url-package` builds the package and the image building resource is either `kpack-template` or the `kaniko-template`. These templates add the label Git
commit SHA of the source code used to the label `org.opencontainers.image.revision` on the OCI image container.

1. An OCI image container is used with the label `org.opencontainers.image.revision`. The package version might look similar to `20230518150903.0.0+build.6db88c7` where `6db88c7` is the Git commit SHA.

### Next Steps

You can deploy the Carvel `Package` using tools such as FluxCD or ArgoCD. See [Deploy Carvel Packages using FluxCD Kustomization](delivery-with-flux.hbs.md).`
