scc/config-deploy-multi-env.hbs.md, before:

# Configure and deploy to multiple environments with custom parameters

This topic describes  how to  use carvel packages, Git repositories, and FluxCD
to deploy workloads to multiple environments. By using a continuous delivery
(CD) tool, you can apply Carvel packages to a runtime. This topic uses FluxCD
the VMware recommended CD tool. You can configure different parameters for each
environment, such as replicas or host names. When you edit package parameters
and commit them to a Git repository, FluxCD watches the Git repository and
applies the package to your runtimes.

## <a id="prerecs"></a> Feature limits 

To configure and deploy to multiple environments with custom parameters, ensure
that your supply chains are compatible with the feature limits.

This feature is in alpha and has the following limits: 

- Only the Out of the Box Basic Supply Chain package is supported. 
- The Testing and Scanning supply chains are not supported. 
- Only workloads of type server are supported. 
- Innerloop development is not supported. 
- Azure GitOps repositories are not supported.

## <a id="using-carvel"></a> Using Carvel packages

You can configure your supply chain to outputs Carvel packages and deliver
configuration for each environment. For information about using Carvel, see
[Carvel Package Supply Chains (alpha)](carvel-package-supply-chain.hbs.md).

## <a id="using-flux"></a> Using GitOps delivery with FluxCD

You can deliver packages created by the Carvel package supply chain, and add
them to clusters, by using a GitOps repository. For information about this
delivery method, see [Use Gitops Delivery with FluxCD
(alpha)](delivery-with-flux.hbs.md).

## <a id="config-blue-grn"></a> Configuring blue-green deployment

You can use blue-green deployment to transfer user traffic from one version of
an app to a later version while both are running. For information about setting
up blue-green deployment, see [Use blue-green deployment with Contour and
PackageInstall (alpha)](blue-green-with-packageinstall.hbs.md).

Commit message:

add deliver-with-app to summary page

scc/config-deploy-multi-env.hbs.md, after:

# Configure and deploy to multiple environments with custom parameters

This topic describes  how to  use carvel packages, Git repositories, and FluxCD
to deploy workloads to multiple environments. By using a continuous delivery
(CD) tool, you can apply Carvel packages to a runtime. This topic uses FluxCD
the VMware recommended CD tool. You can configure different parameters for each
environment, such as replicas or host names. When you edit package parameters
and commit them to a Git repository, FluxCD watches the Git repository and
applies the package to your runtimes.

## <a id="prerecs"></a> Feature limits 

To configure and deploy to multiple environments with custom parameters, ensure
that your supply chains are compatible with the feature limits.

This feature is in alpha and has the following limits: 

- Only the Out of the Box Basic Supply Chain package is supported. 
- The Testing and Scanning supply chains are not supported. 
- Only workloads of type server are supported. 
- Innerloop development is not supported. 
- Azure GitOps repositories are not supported.

## <a id="using-carvel"></a> Using Carvel packages

You can configure your supply chain to outputs Carvel packages and deliver
configuration for each environment. For information about using Carvel, see
[Carvel Package Supply Chains (alpha)](carvel-package-supply-chain.hbs.md).

## <a id="using-flux"></a> Using GitOps delivery with FluxCD

You can deliver packages created by the Carvel package supply chain, and add
them to clusters, by using a GitOps repository. For information about this
delivery method, see [Use Gitops Delivery with FluxCD
(alpha)](delivery-with-flux.hbs.md).

## <a id="using-app"></a> Using GitOps delivery with Carvel App

Alternatively, you can deliver packages created by the Carvel package supply
chain, and add them to clusters, by using a GitOps repository. For information
about this delivery method, see [Use Gitops Delivery with Carvel App
(alpha)](delivery-with-carvel-app.hbs.md).

## <a id="config-blue-grn"></a> Configuring blue-green deployment

You can use blue-green deployment to transfer user traffic from one version of
an app to a later version while both are running. For information about setting
up blue-green deployment, see [Use blue-green deployment with Contour and
PackageInstall (alpha)](blue-green-with-packageinstall.hbs.md).
