scc/delivery-with-flux.hbs.md, before:

# Use Gitops Delivery with FluxCD (alpha)

This topic explains how you can deliver Carvel `Packages`, created by the Carvel
Package Supply Chains, from a GitOps repository to one or more run clusters
using FluxCD and Supply Chain Choreographer.

## <a id="prerecs"></a> Prerequisites

To use Gitops Delivery with FluxCD, you must complete the following prerequisites:

- You must create a `Workload` that uses either the `source-to-url-package` or
  `basic-image-to-url-package` Carvel Package Supply Chain. See the [Carvel
  documentation](./carvel-package-supply-chain.hbs.md). You must have at least
  one Carvel `Package` generated by this `Workload` stored in your GitOps
  repository.
- You must have at least one run cluster. run clusters serve as your deployment
  environments. They can either be Tanzu Application Platform clusters, or
  regular Kubernetes clusters, but they must have kapp-controller and Contour
  installed. See the [Carvel documentation](https://carvel.dev/kapp-controller/)
  and the [Contour documentation](https://projectcontour.io/).
- If you want to use a build cluster to control the deployment on all the run
  clusters, you must create a build cluster that has network access to your run
  clusters. You must also ensure that you installed FluxCD Kustomize Controller.
  See the [Flux documentation](https://fluxcd.io/flux/installation/#dev-install)
  for installation instructions. If you intend to deploy directly on the run
  cluster without a build cluster, a build cluster is only necessary for
  building the package.

## <a id="run-cluster-ns"></a> Set up run cluster namespaces

Each run cluster must have a namespace and `ServiceAccount` with the correct permissions to deploy the Carvel `Packages`.

If your run cluster is a Tanzu Application Platform cluster, see [Set up developer namespaces to use your installed packages](../install-online/set-up-namespaces.hbs.md).

If your run cluster is not a Tanzu Application Platform cluster, create a namespace and `ServiceAccount` with the following permissions:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: Role
metadata:
  namespace: <run-cluster-ns>
  name: app-cr-role
rules:
- apiGroups: ["apps"]
  resources: ["deployments"]
  verbs: ["get", "list", "create", "update", "delete"]
- apiGroups: [""]
  resources: ["configmaps", "services"]
  verbs: ["get", "list", "create", "update", "delete"]
- apiGroups: ["networking.k8s.io"]
  resources: ["ingresses"]
  verbs: ["get", "list", "create", "update", "delete"]
```

## <a id="create-carvel"></a> Create Carvel PackageInstalls and secrets

For each Carvel `Package` and for each run cluster, you must create a Carvel `PackageInstall` and a `Secret`. The Carvel `PackageInstall` and the `Secret` is stored in your GitOps repository and deployed to run clusters by FluxCD.

The following example shows GitOps repository structure after completing this section:

```console
app.default.tap/
  packages/
    20230321004057.0.0.yaml  # Package
  staging/
    packageinstall.yaml      # PackageInstall
    params.yaml              # Secret
  prod/
    packageinstall.yaml      # PackageInstall
    params.yaml              # Secret
```

1. For each run cluster, create a `Secret` that has the values for each `Package` parameter. You can see the configurable properties of the `Package` by inspecting the `Package` CR’s valuesSchema, or in the [Carvel Package Supply Chains documentation](./carvel-package-supply-chain.hbs.md). Store the `Secret` in your GitOps repository at `<package_name>/<run_cluster>/params.yaml`.

   ```yaml
   ---
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Secret
   metadata:
     name: app-values
   stringData:
     values.yaml: |
       ---
       replicas: 2
       hostname: app.mycompany.com
   ```

   > **Note** You can skip this step to use the default parameter values.

2. For each run cluster, create a `PackageInstall`. Reference the `Secret` you created earlier. Store the `PackageInstall` in your GitOps repository at `<package_name>/<run_cluster>/packageinstall.yaml`.

   ```yaml
   ---
   apiVersion: packaging.carvel.dev/v1alpha1
   kind: PackageInstall
   metadata:
     name: app
   spec:
     serviceAccountName: <run-cluster-ns-sa> # ServiceAccount on run cluster with permissions to deploy Package, see "Set up run Cluster Namespaces"
     packageRef:
       refName: app.default.tap # name of the Package
       versionSelection:
         constraints: 20230321004057.0.0 # version of the Package
     values:
     - secretRef:
         name: app-values # Secret created in previous step
   ```

   > **Note** To continuously deploy the latest version of your `Package`, you can set `versionSelection.constraints: >=0.0.0`
   > **Note** If you skipped creation of the `Secret`, omit the `values` key.

3. Push the newly created `PackageInstalls` and `Secrets` to your GitOps repository.

## <a id="create-flux"></a> Create FluxCD GitRepository and FluxCD Kustomizations on the Build Cluster

Configure FluxCD on the Build cluster to deploy your `Packages`, `PackageInstalls`, and `Secrets` to each of your run clusters.

1. Give your Build cluster access to your run clusters. On the Build cluster, for each run cluster, create a `Secret` containing the run cluster's kubeconfig:

   ```console
   kubectl create secret generic <run-cluster>-kubeconfig \
       -n <build-cluster-ns> \
       --from-file=value.yaml=<path-to-run-cluster-kubeconfig>
   ```

2. Configure your Build cluster to clone the GitOps repository. On the Build cluster, create the following FluxCD `GitRepository`:

   ```yaml
   ---
   apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
   kind: GitRepository
   metadata:
     name: <package-name>-gitops-repo
     namespace: <build-cluster-ns>
   spec:
     url: # GitOps repo URL
     ignore: |
       !.git
     interval: 30s
     ref:
       branch: # GitOps repo branch
     timeout: 60s

     # only required if GitOps repo is private (recommended)
     secretRef:
       name: <package-name>-gitops-auth
       namespace: <build-cluster-ns>

   # only required if GitOps repo is private (recommended)
   ---
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Secret
   metadata:
     name: <package-name>-gitops-auth
     namespace: <build-cluster-ns>
   type: Opaque
   data:
     username: # base64 encoded GitHub (or other git remote) username
     password: # base64 encoded GitHub (or other git remote) personal access token
   ```

3. Configure your Build cluster to deploy your `Package` to the run clusters. For each run cluster, on the Build cluster, create the following FluxCD `Kustomization`:

   ```yaml
   ---
   apiVersion: kustomize.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
   kind: Kustomization
   metadata:
     name: <package-name>-<run-cluster>-packages
     namespace: <build-cluster-ns>
   spec:
     sourceRef:
       kind: GitRepository
       name: <package-name>-gitops-repo
       namespace: <build-cluster-ns>
     path: "./<package-name>/packages"
     interval: 5m
     timeout: 5m
     prune: true
     wait: true

     # where to deploy
     kubeConfig:
       secretRef:
         name: <run-cluster>-kubeconfig
         namespace: <build-cluster-ns>
     targetNamespace: <run-cluster-ns>
     serviceAccountName: <run-cluster-ns-sa>
   ```

4. Configure your Build cluster to deploy your `PackageInstalls` and `Secrets` to the run clusters. For each run cluster, on the Build cluster, create the following FluxCD `Kustomization`:

   ```yaml
   ---
   apiVersion: kustomize.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
   kind: Kustomization
   metadata:
     # for the second run cluster, for example hello-app-prod2-packages
     name: <package-name>-<run-cluster>-packageinstalls
     namespace: <build-cluster-ns>
   spec:
     sourceRef:
       kind: GitRepository
       name: <package-name>-gitops-repo
       namespace: <build-cluster-ns>
     path: "./<package-name>/<run-cluster>"
     interval: 5m
     timeout: 5m
     prune: true
     wait: true

     # where to deploy
     kubeConfig:
       secretRef:
         name: <run-cluster>-kubeconfig
         namespace: <build-cluster-ns>
     targetNamespace: <run-cluster-ns>
     serviceAccountName: <run-cluster-ns-sa>
   ```

## <a id="verify-install"></a> Verifying Installation

To verify your installation:

1. On your Build cluster, confirm that your FluxCD GitRepository and Kustomizations are reconciling:

   ```console
   kubectl get gitrepositories,kustomizations -A
   ```

2. Target a run cluster. Confirm that all Packages from the GitOps repository are deployed:

   ```console
   kubectl get packages -A
   ```

3. Target a run cluster. Confirm that all PackageInstalls are reconciled:

   ```console
   kubectl get packageinstalls -A
   ```

Now you can access your application on each run cluster.

Commit message:

Update note to revert to previous version

scc/delivery-with-flux.hbs.md, after:

# Use Gitops Delivery with FluxCD (alpha)

This topic explains how you can deliver Carvel `Packages`, created by the Carvel
Package Supply Chains, from a GitOps repository to one or more run clusters
using FluxCD and Supply Chain Choreographer.

## <a id="prerecs"></a> Prerequisites

To use Gitops Delivery with FluxCD, you must complete the following prerequisites:

- You must create a `Workload` that uses either the `source-to-url-package` or
  `basic-image-to-url-package` Carvel Package Supply Chain. See the [Carvel
  documentation](./carvel-package-supply-chain.hbs.md). You must have at least
  one Carvel `Package` generated by this `Workload` stored in your GitOps
  repository.
- You must have at least one run cluster. run clusters serve as your deployment
  environments. They can either be Tanzu Application Platform clusters, or
  regular Kubernetes clusters, but they must have kapp-controller and Contour
  installed. See the [Carvel documentation](https://carvel.dev/kapp-controller/)
  and the [Contour documentation](https://projectcontour.io/).
- If you want to use a build cluster to control the deployment on all the run
  clusters, you must create a build cluster that has network access to your run
  clusters. You must also ensure that you installed FluxCD Kustomize Controller.
  See the [Flux documentation](https://fluxcd.io/flux/installation/#dev-install)
  for installation instructions. If you intend to deploy directly on the run
  cluster without a build cluster, a build cluster is only necessary for
  building the package.

## <a id="run-cluster-ns"></a> Set up run cluster namespaces

Each run cluster must have a namespace and `ServiceAccount` with the correct permissions to deploy the Carvel `Packages`.

If your run cluster is a Tanzu Application Platform cluster, see [Set up developer namespaces to use your installed packages](../install-online/set-up-namespaces.hbs.md).

If your run cluster is not a Tanzu Application Platform cluster, create a namespace and `ServiceAccount` with the following permissions:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: Role
metadata:
  namespace: <run-cluster-ns>
  name: app-cr-role
rules:
- apiGroups: ["apps"]
  resources: ["deployments"]
  verbs: ["get", "list", "create", "update", "delete"]
- apiGroups: [""]
  resources: ["configmaps", "services"]
  verbs: ["get", "list", "create", "update", "delete"]
- apiGroups: ["networking.k8s.io"]
  resources: ["ingresses"]
  verbs: ["get", "list", "create", "update", "delete"]
```

## <a id="create-carvel"></a> Create Carvel PackageInstalls and secrets

For each Carvel `Package` and for each run cluster, you must create a Carvel `PackageInstall` and a `Secret`. The Carvel `PackageInstall` and the `Secret` is stored in your GitOps repository and deployed to run clusters by FluxCD.

The following example shows GitOps repository structure after completing this section:

```console
app.default.tap/
  packages/
    20230321004057.0.0.yaml  # Package
  staging/
    packageinstall.yaml      # PackageInstall
    params.yaml              # Secret
  prod/
    packageinstall.yaml      # PackageInstall
    params.yaml              # Secret
```

1. For each run cluster, create a `Secret` that has the values for each `Package` parameter. You can see the configurable properties of the `Package` by inspecting the `Package` CR’s valuesSchema, or in the [Carvel Package Supply Chains documentation](./carvel-package-supply-chain.hbs.md). Store the `Secret` in your GitOps repository at `<package_name>/<run_cluster>/params.yaml`.

   ```yaml
   ---
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Secret
   metadata:
     name: app-values
   stringData:
     values.yaml: |
       ---
       replicas: 2
       hostname: app.mycompany.com
   ```

   > **Note** You can skip this step to use the default parameter values.

2. For each run cluster, create a `PackageInstall`. Reference the `Secret` you created earlier. Store the `PackageInstall` in your GitOps repository at `<package_name>/<run_cluster>/packageinstall.yaml`.

   ```yaml
   ---
   apiVersion: packaging.carvel.dev/v1alpha1
   kind: PackageInstall
   metadata:
     name: app
   spec:
     serviceAccountName: <run-cluster-ns-sa> # ServiceAccount on run cluster with permissions to deploy Package, see "Set up run Cluster Namespaces"
     packageRef:
       refName: app.default.tap # name of the Package
       versionSelection:
         constraints: 20230321004057.0.0 # version of the Package
     values:
     - secretRef:
         name: app-values # Secret created in previous step
   ```

   > **Note** To continuously deploy the latest version of your `Package`, you can set `versionSelection.constraints: >=0.0.0`. To revert to a previous version, you need to update the `versionSelection.constraints:` field and add below annotation to the PackageInstall like mentioned [here](https://carvel.dev/kapp-controller/docs/v0.32.0/package-consumer-concepts/#downgrading)
    annotations:
      packaging.carvel.dev/downgradable: ""
   > **Note** If you skipped creation of the `Secret`, omit the `values` key.

3. Push the newly created `PackageInstalls` and `Secrets` to your GitOps repository.

## <a id="create-flux"></a> Create FluxCD GitRepository and FluxCD Kustomizations on the Build Cluster

Configure FluxCD on the Build cluster to deploy your `Packages`, `PackageInstalls`, and `Secrets` to each of your run clusters.

1. Give your Build cluster access to your run clusters. On the Build cluster, for each run cluster, create a `Secret` containing the run cluster's kubeconfig:

   ```console
   kubectl create secret generic <run-cluster>-kubeconfig \
       -n <build-cluster-ns> \
       --from-file=value.yaml=<path-to-run-cluster-kubeconfig>
   ```

2. Configure your Build cluster to clone the GitOps repository. On the Build cluster, create the following FluxCD `GitRepository`:

   ```yaml
   ---
   apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
   kind: GitRepository
   metadata:
     name: <package-name>-gitops-repo
     namespace: <build-cluster-ns>
   spec:
     url: # GitOps repo URL
     ignore: |
       !.git
     interval: 30s
     ref:
       branch: # GitOps repo branch
     timeout: 60s

     # only required if GitOps repo is private (recommended)
     secretRef:
       name: <package-name>-gitops-auth
       namespace: <build-cluster-ns>

   # only required if GitOps repo is private (recommended)
   ---
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Secret
   metadata:
     name: <package-name>-gitops-auth
     namespace: <build-cluster-ns>
   type: Opaque
   data:
     username: # base64 encoded GitHub (or other git remote) username
     password: # base64 encoded GitHub (or other git remote) personal access token
   ```

3. Configure your Build cluster to deploy your `Package` to the run clusters. For each run cluster, on the Build cluster, create the following FluxCD `Kustomization`:

   ```yaml
   ---
   apiVersion: kustomize.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
   kind: Kustomization
   metadata:
     name: <package-name>-<run-cluster>-packages
     namespace: <build-cluster-ns>
   spec:
     sourceRef:
       kind: GitRepository
       name: <package-name>-gitops-repo
       namespace: <build-cluster-ns>
     path: "./<package-name>/packages"
     interval: 5m
     timeout: 5m
     prune: true
     wait: true

     # where to deploy
     kubeConfig:
       secretRef:
         name: <run-cluster>-kubeconfig
         namespace: <build-cluster-ns>
     targetNamespace: <run-cluster-ns>
     serviceAccountName: <run-cluster-ns-sa>
   ```

4. Configure your Build cluster to deploy your `PackageInstalls` and `Secrets` to the run clusters. For each run cluster, on the Build cluster, create the following FluxCD `Kustomization`:

   ```yaml
   ---
   apiVersion: kustomize.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
   kind: Kustomization
   metadata:
     # for the second run cluster, for example hello-app-prod2-packages
     name: <package-name>-<run-cluster>-packageinstalls
     namespace: <build-cluster-ns>
   spec:
     sourceRef:
       kind: GitRepository
       name: <package-name>-gitops-repo
       namespace: <build-cluster-ns>
     path: "./<package-name>/<run-cluster>"
     interval: 5m
     timeout: 5m
     prune: true
     wait: true

     # where to deploy
     kubeConfig:
       secretRef:
         name: <run-cluster>-kubeconfig
         namespace: <build-cluster-ns>
     targetNamespace: <run-cluster-ns>
     serviceAccountName: <run-cluster-ns-sa>
   ```

## <a id="verify-install"></a> Verifying Installation

To verify your installation:

1. On your Build cluster, confirm that your FluxCD GitRepository and Kustomizations are reconciling:

   ```console
   kubectl get gitrepositories,kustomizations -A
   ```

2. Target a run cluster. Confirm that all Packages from the GitOps repository are deployed:

   ```console
   kubectl get packages -A
   ```

3. Target a run cluster. Confirm that all PackageInstalls are reconciled:

   ```console
   kubectl get packageinstalls -A
   ```

Now you can access your application on each run cluster.
