cli-plugins/insight/cli-docs/tanzu_insight_triage_update.hbs.md, before:

# tanzu insight triage update

Use this command to create or update a vulnerability analysis.

## <a id='synopsis'></a>Synopsis

Create or update a vulnerability impact analysis. For impact analysis, you need
to target a specific OS/Application package, vulnerability and image or source
belonging to a specific Artifact Group. This tool follows CycloneDX's VEX spec
for impact analysis, and you will find flag options for each of the CycloneDX's
VEX fields, as well as support for only their predefined values. Here is a
description of the fields and their supported options:

Impact Analysis States (\-\-state)

Declares the current state of an occurrence of a vulnerability, after automated
or manual analysis.

- resolved = the vulnerability has been remediated.
- resolved_with_pedigree = the vulnerability has been remediated and evidence of
  the changes are provided in the affected components pedigree containing
  verifiable commit history and/or diff(s).
- exploitable = the vulnerability may be directly or indirectly exploitable.
- in_triage = the vulnerability is being investigated.
- false_positive = the vulnerability is not specific to the component or service
  and was falsely identified or associated.
- not_affected = the component or service is not affected by the vulnerability.
  --justification should be specified for all not_affected cases.

Impact Analysis Justifications (\-\-justification)

The rationale of why the impact analysis state was asserted

- code_not_present = the code has been removed or tree-shaked.
- code_not_reachable = the vulnerable code is not invoked at runtime.
- requires_configuration = exploitability requires a configurable option to be
  set/unset.
- requires_dependency = exploitability requires a dependency that is not present.
- requires_environment = exploitability requires a certain environment which is
  not present.
- protected_by_compiler = exploitability requires a compiler flag to be
  set/unset.
- protected_at_runtime = exploits are prevented at runtime.
- protected_at_perimeter = attacks are blocked at physical, logical, or network
  perimeter.
- protected_by_mitigating_control = preventative measures have been implemented
  that reduce the likelihood and/or impact of the vulnerability.

Impact Analysis Responses (\-\-response)

A response to the vulnerability by the manufacturer, supplier, or project
responsible for the affected component or service.  More than one response is
allowed. Responses are strongly encouraged for vulnerabilities where the
analysis state is exploitable

- can_not_fix
- will_not_fix
- update
- rollback
- workaround_available

Free form comments (\-\-comment) are also allowed.

```console
tanzu insight triage update --cveid <cve-id> --pkg-name <pkg-name> --pkg-version <pkg-version> --img-digest <digest> --artifact-group-uid <uid> [--state <state>] [--justification <justification>] [--response <response1,response2>] [--comment <comment>] [flags]
```

## <a id='examples'></a>Examples

```console
insight triage update --cveid CVE-2022-5089 --pkg-name google.golang.org/protobuf --pkg-version 1.23.2 --img-digest sha256:192369123812 --artifact-group-uid AG-00001 --state false_positive
insight triage update --cveid CVE-2022-5089 --pkg-name google.golang.org/protobuf --pkg-version 1.23.2 --img-digest sha256:192369123812 --img-registry internal-hub.docker.io --artifact-group-uid AG-00001 --state not_affected --justification code_not_reachable --comment "The code can't be reached by external users"
insight triage update --cveid CVE-2020-1034 --pkg-name libssl --pkg-version 1.3.0-dev.35 --src-commit 5025112c8b1 --artifact-group-uid AG-00002
insight triage update --cveid CVE-2020-1034 --pkg-name libssl --pkg-version 1.3.0-dev.35 --src-commit 5025112c8b1 --artifact-group-uid AG-00002 --state exploitable --response will_not_fix,update
```

## <a id='options'></a>Options

```console
  -a, --artifact-group-uid string   Artifact group uid
  -t, --comment string              Analysis comment
  -v, --cveid string                CVE id
  -h, --help                        help for update
  -d, --img-digest string           Image digest
      --img-registry string         Image registry
  -j, --justification string        Analysis justification
  -n, --pkg-name string             Package name
  -p, --pkg-version string          Package version
  -r, --response strings            Analysis response
  -c, --src-commit string           Source commit
      --src-org string              Source organization
      --src-repo string             Source repository
  -s, --state string                Analysis state (default "in_triage")
  -y, --yes                         Force update
```

## <a id='options'></a>Options inherited from parent commands

```console
      --output-format string   specify the response's format, options=[text, api-json] (default "text")
```

## <a id='see-also'></a>See also

* [tanzu insight triage](tanzu_insight_triage.hbs.md)	 - Vulnerability analysis commands

Commit message:

Highlighted when justification is required

cli-plugins/insight/cli-docs/tanzu_insight_triage_update.hbs.md, after:

# tanzu insight triage update

Use this command to create or update a vulnerability analysis.

## <a id='synopsis'></a>Synopsis

Create or update a vulnerability impact analysis. For impact analysis, you need
to target a specific OS/Application package, vulnerability and image or source
belonging to a specific Artifact Group. This tool follows CycloneDX's VEX spec
for impact analysis, and you will find flag options for each of the CycloneDX's
VEX fields, as well as support for only their predefined values. Here is a
description of the fields and their supported options:

## Impact Analysis States (\-\-state)

Declares the current state of an occurrence of a vulnerability, after automated
or manual analysis.

- resolved = the vulnerability has been remediated.
- resolved_with_pedigree = the vulnerability has been remediated and evidence of
  the changes are provided in the affected components pedigree containing
  verifiable commit history and/or diff(s).
- exploitable = the vulnerability may be directly or indirectly exploitable.
- in_triage = the vulnerability is being investigated.
- false_positive = the vulnerability is not specific to the component or service
  and was falsely identified or associated.
- not_affected = the component or service is not affected by the vulnerability.

> **Note** When `--state` is set to `not_affected`, then `--justification` is required.  When `--state` is set to `exploitable` it is encouraged to also include `--justification` but not required per CycloneDX specification.

## Impact Analysis Justifications (\-\-justification)

The rationale of why the impact analysis state was asserted

- code_not_present = the code has been removed or tree-shaked.
- code_not_reachable = the vulnerable code is not invoked at runtime.
- requires_configuration = exploitability requires a configurable option to be
  set/unset.
- requires_dependency = exploitability requires a dependency that is not present.
- requires_environment = exploitability requires a certain environment which is
  not present.
- protected_by_compiler = exploitability requires a compiler flag to be
  set/unset.
- protected_at_runtime = exploits are prevented at runtime.
- protected_at_perimeter = attacks are blocked at physical, logical, or network
  perimeter.
- protected_by_mitigating_control = preventative measures have been implemented
  that reduce the likelihood and/or impact of the vulnerability.

## Impact Analysis Responses (\-\-response)

A response to the vulnerability by the manufacturer, supplier, or project
responsible for the affected component or service.  More than one response is
allowed. Responses are strongly encouraged for vulnerabilities where the
analysis state is exploitable

- can_not_fix
- will_not_fix
- update
- rollback
- workaround_available

## Free form comments (\-\-comment) are also allowed.

```console
tanzu insight triage update --cveid <cve-id> --pkg-name <pkg-name> --pkg-version <pkg-version> --img-digest <digest> --artifact-group-uid <uid> [--state <state>] [--justification <justification>] [--response <response1,response2>] [--comment <comment>] [flags]
```

## <a id='examples'></a>Examples

```console
insight triage update --cveid CVE-2022-5089 --pkg-name google.golang.org/protobuf --pkg-version 1.23.2 --img-digest sha256:192369123812 --artifact-group-uid AG-00001 --state false_positive
insight triage update --cveid CVE-2022-5089 --pkg-name google.golang.org/protobuf --pkg-version 1.23.2 --img-digest sha256:192369123812 --img-registry internal-hub.docker.io --artifact-group-uid AG-00001 --state not_affected --justification code_not_reachable --comment "The code can't be reached by external users"
insight triage update --cveid CVE-2020-1034 --pkg-name libssl --pkg-version 1.3.0-dev.35 --src-commit 5025112c8b1 --artifact-group-uid AG-00002
insight triage update --cveid CVE-2020-1034 --pkg-name libssl --pkg-version 1.3.0-dev.35 --src-commit 5025112c8b1 --artifact-group-uid AG-00002 --state exploitable --response will_not_fix,update
```

## <a id='options'></a>Options

```console
  -a, --artifact-group-uid string   Artifact group uid
  -t, --comment string              Analysis comment
  -v, --cveid string                CVE id
  -h, --help                        help for update
  -d, --img-digest string           Image digest
      --img-registry string         Image registry
  -j, --justification string        Analysis justification
  -n, --pkg-name string             Package name
  -p, --pkg-version string          Package version
  -r, --response strings            Analysis response
  -c, --src-commit string           Source commit
      --src-org string              Source organization
      --src-repo string             Source repository
  -s, --state string                Analysis state (default "in_triage")
  -y, --yes                         Force update
```

## <a id='options'></a>Options inherited from parent commands

```console
      --output-format string   specify the response's format, options=[text, api-json] (default "text")
```

## <a id='see-also'></a>See also

* [tanzu insight triage](tanzu_insight_triage.hbs.md)	 - Vulnerability analysis commands
