app-live-view/improved-security-and-access-control.hbs.md, before:

# Configure security and access control in Application Live View

This topic tells you how to enable improved security and access control in Application Live View
in Tanzu Application Platform (commonly known as TAP). Improved security and access control in
Application Live View secures the REST API exposed by the Application Live View
back end.

For more information about Application Live View packages, see
[Install Application Live View](./install.hbs.md).

## <a id='sec-ac-overview'></a>Security and access control overview

There is one instance of Application Live View back end installed per `view` profile.
Multiple users access this back-end API to fetch actuator data for different applications.
All the REST API calls to the back end are secured.
A token must be passed to the Application Live View back end on each call to the REST API to fetch
actuator data. This token is obtained from Application Live View APIServer.

The Application Live View APIServer generates a unique token upon access validation of a user to a pod.
The Application Live View back end passes this token to the Application Live View connector when
requesting the actuator data.
The Application Live View connector verifies this token by calling the Application Live View APIServer
and proxies the actuator data only if the token is valid.

The Application Live View UI plug-in part of The Tanzu Application Platform GUI uses the preceding
approach to securely query for the actuator data for a pod.
It requests a token from Application Live View APIServer and passes it in the subsequent calls to the
back end. This ensures that actuator data from the running application is fetched only if the user is
authorized to see the live information for the pod.

The Application Live View UI plug-in relies on Tanzu Application Platform GUI authentication and
authorization to access the Application Live View APIServer and fetch the Application Live View tokens.

The Tanzu Application Platform GUI controls the access to Kubernetes resources based on user roles
and permissions for each of the remote clusters.
For more information, see
[View runtime resources on authorization-enabled clusters](../tap-gui/tap-gui-rbac/view-resources-rbac.hbs.md).

For more information about how to set up unrestricted remote cluster visibility, see
[Viewing resources on multiple clusters in Tanzu Application Platform GUI](../tap-gui/cluster-view-setup.hbs.md).

## <a id='prereqs'></a>Prerequisites

1. You install the Application Live View APIServer package (`apiserver.appliveview.tanzu.vmware.com`)
   in Tanzu Application Platform.
   For more information, see [Install Application Live View APIServer](./install.hbs.md#install-alv-apiserver).

1. Assign users necessary roles and permissions for the Kubernetes clusters.
   For more information about managing role-based access control, see
   [Assign roles and permissions on Kubernetes clusters](../tap-gui/tap-gui-rbac/assigning-kubernetes-roles.hbs.md)

For example: If you are using Service Account to view resources on a cluster in
Tanzu Application Platform GUI, verify that the `ClusterRole` has rules to
access and request tokens from the Application Live View APIServer.

```yaml
- apiGroups: ['appliveview.apps.tanzu.vmware.com']
  resources:
  - resourceinspectiongrants
  verbs: ['get', 'watch', 'list', 'create']
```

For more information, see [Set up a Service Account to view resources on a
cluster](../tap-gui/cluster-view-setup.hbs.md).

>**Note** With the Service Account approach to view resources on a cluster,
>every user with the Service Account Token with access to view the pods is able
>to see the live information in Application Live View.

## <a id='improved-security'></a> Configure improved security

The improved security feature is enabled by default for Application Live View.

In a Tanzu Application Platform profile install, the Application Live View
connector (`connector.appliveview.tanzu.vmware.com`) and the Tanzu Application
Platform GUI (`tap-gui.tanzu.vmware.com`) are automatically configured to enable
the secure communication between Application Live View components.

You can control this feature by setting the top-level key
`shared.activateAppLiveViewSecureAccessControl` in the `tap-values.yaml`.

For example:

```yaml
shared:
    activateAppLiveViewSecureAccessControl: true
```

To override the security feature at the individual component level, take the
following steps.

### <a id='app-live-view-connector'></a> Application Live View connector

1. (Optional) Change the default installation settings for Application Live View
   connector by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package available get connector.appliveview.tanzu.vmware.com/VERSION-NUMBER --values-schema --namespace tap-install
    ```

    Where `VERSION-NUMBER` is the version of the package listed. For example,
    `1.5.0-build.5`.

    For example:

    ```console
    $ tanzu package available get connector.appliveview.tanzu.vmware.com/1.5.0-build.5 --values-schema --namespace tap-install
      KEY                                   DEFAULT             TYPE        DESCRIPTION
      kubernetes_version                                        string      Optional: The Kubernetes Version. Valid values are '1.24.*', or ''.

      backend.sslDeactivated                false               boolean     Flag for whether to disable SSL.
      backend.caCertData                    cert-in-pem-format  string      CA Cert Data for ingress domain.
      backend.host                          <nil>               string      Domain used to reach the Application Live View back end. Prepend
                                                                            "appliveview" subdomain to the value if you use shared ingress. For
                                                                            example: "example.com" becomes "appliveview.example.com".
      backend.ingressEnabled                false               boolean     Flag for the connector to connect to ingress on back end.

      backend.port                          <nil>               number      Port to reach the Application Live View back end.
      connector.namespace_scoped.enabled    false               boolean     Flag for the connector to run in namespace scope.
      connector.namespace_scoped.namespace  default             string      Namespace to deploy connector.
      kubernetes_distribution                                   string      Kubernetes distribution that this package is being installed on. Accepted
                                                                            values: ['''',''openshift''].
      activateAppLiveViewSecureAccessControl                    boolean     Optional: Configuration required to enable Secure Access Connection between App Live View components.
      activateSensitiveOperations                               boolean     Optional: Configuration to allow connector to execute sensitive operations on a running application.
    ```

    For more information about values schema options, see the properties listed
    earlier.

1. Create `app-live-view-connector-values.yaml` with the following details:

    To override the default security settings for connector, use the following
    values:

     ```yaml
    activateAppLiveViewSecureAccessControl: false
    ```

    By default, activateAppLiveViewSecureAccessControl is set to `true`.

    The `activateSensitiveOperations` key activates/deactivates the execution of
    sensitive operations, such as editing environment variables, downloading
    heap dump data, and changing log levels for the applications in the cluster.
    It is set to `false` by default.

    To enable the sensitive operations, set `activateSensitiveOperations` to
    `true`.

     ```yaml
    activateSensitiveOperations: true
    ```

    To control permissions to execute sensitive operations at a user level, see [Authorize a user to execute sensitive operations](#authorize-a-user-to-execute-sensitive-operations).

1. Install the Application Live View connector package by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package install appliveview-connector -p connector.appliveview.tanzu.vmware.com -v VERSION-NUMBER -n tap-install -f app-live-view-connector-values.yaml
    ```

    Where `VERSION-NUMBER` is the version of the package listed. For example,
    `1.5.0-build.5`.

    For example:

    ```console
    $ tanzu package install appliveview-connector -p connector.appliveview.tanzu.vmware.com -v 1.5.0-build.5 -n tap-install -f app-live-view-connector-values.yaml
    | Installing package 'connector.appliveview.tanzu.vmware.com'
    | Getting namespace 'tap-install'
    | Getting package metadata for 'connector.appliveview.tanzu.vmware.com'
    | Creating service account 'appliveview-connector-tap-install-sa'
    | Creating cluster admin role 'appliveview-connector-tap-install-cluster-role'
    | Creating cluster role binding 'appliveview-connector-tap-install-cluster-rolebinding'
    - Creating package resource
    / Package install status: Reconciling

    Added installed package 'appliveview-connector' in namespace 'tap-install'
    ```

1. Verify the `Application Live View connector` package installation by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package installed get appliveview-connector -n tap-install
    ```

    For example:

    ```console
    tanzu package installed get appliveview-connector -n tap-install                                                                              5s
    | Retrieving installation details for appliveview-connector...
    NAME:                    appliveview-connector
    PACKAGE-NAME:            connector.appliveview.tanzu.vmware.com
    PACKAGE-VERSION:         1.5.0-build.5
    STATUS:                  Reconcile succeeded
    CONDITIONS:              [{ReconcileSucceeded True  }]
    USEFUL-ERROR-MESSAGE:
    ```

    Verify that `STATUS` is `Reconcile succeeded`.

### <a id='app-live-view-ui-plugin'></a> Application Live View UI plug-in

The Application Live View UI plug-in is part of Tanzu Application Platform GUI.
To override the default security settings for the Application Live View UI
plug-in, take the following steps.

1. (Optional) Make changes to the default installation settings by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package available get tap-gui.tanzu.vmware.com/VERSION-NUMBER --values-schema --namespace tap-install
    ```

    Where `VERSION-NUMBER` is the number you discovered previously. For example,
    `1.4.6`.

    For more information about values schema options, see the individual product
    documentation.

1. Create `tap-gui-values.yaml` and paste in the following code:

    ```yaml
    ingressEnabled: true
    ingressDomain: "INGRESS-DOMAIN"
    app_config:
      catalog:
        locations:
          - type: url
            target: https://GIT-CATALOG-URL/catalog-info.yaml
      appLiveView:
        activateAppLiveViewSecureAccessControl: false
    ```

    Where:

    - `INGRESS-DOMAIN` is the subdomain for the host name that you point at the
      `tanzu-shared-ingress` service's External IP address.
    - `GIT-CATALOG-URL` is the path to the `catalog-info.yaml` catalog
      definition file from either the included Blank catalog (provided as an
      additional download named "Blank Tanzu Application Platform GUI Catalog")
      or a Backstage-compliant catalog that you've already built and posted on
      the Git infrastructure specified in [Add Tanzu Application Platform GUI
      integrations](../tap-gui/integrations.hbs.md).

1. Install the package by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package install tap-gui \
     --package-name tap-gui.tanzu.vmware.com \
     --version VERSION -n tap-install \
     -f tap-gui-values.yaml
    ```

    Where `VERSION` is the version that you want. For example, `1.4.6`.

    For example:

    ```console
    $ tanzu package install tap-gui -package-name tap-gui.tanzu.vmware.com --version 1.4.6 -n tap-install -f tap-gui-values.yaml
    - Installing package 'tap-gui.tanzu.vmware.com'
    | Getting package metadata for 'tap-gui.tanzu.vmware.com'
    | Creating service account 'tap-gui-default-sa'
    | Creating cluster admin role 'tap-gui-default-cluster-role'
    | Creating cluster role binding 'tap-gui-default-cluster-rolebinding'
    | Creating secret 'tap-gui-default-values'
    - Creating package resource
    - Package install status: Reconciling

     Added installed package 'tap-gui' in namespace 'tap-install'
    ```

1. Verify that the package installed by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package installed get tap-gui -n tap-install
    ```

    For example:

    ```console
    $ tanzu package installed get tap-gui -n tap-install
    | Retrieving installation details for cc...
    NAME:                    tap-gui
    PACKAGE-NAME:            tap-gui.tanzu.vmware.com
    PACKAGE-VERSION:         1.4.6
    STATUS:                  Reconcile succeeded
    CONDITIONS:              [{ReconcileSucceeded True  }]
    USEFUL-ERROR-MESSAGE:
    ```

    Verify that `STATUS` is `Reconcile succeeded`.

1. To access Tanzu Application Platform GUI, use the service you exposed in the
`service_type` field in the values file.

## <a id='access-control'></a> Authorize a user to execute sensitive operations

You can limit the access to execute sensitive operations to specific users.
This secures operations such as editing environment variables, downloading heap dump data,
and changing log levels for applications.

To authorize a user to execute these sensitive operations:

1. Create a `ClusterRole` with a rule that specifies the `execute` verb for the `SensitiveOperationsAccess`
resource and a corresponding `RoleBinding` to bind it to a user:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
    kind: ClusterRole
    metadata:
      name: alv-execute-sensitive-op-role
    rules:
    - apiGroups: ['appliveview.apps.tanzu.vmware.com']
      resources:
      - sensitiveoperationsaccesses
      verbs: ['execute']
    ---
    apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
    kind: RoleBinding
    metadata:
      name: alice-alv-execute-sensitive-op-role-binding
      namespace: dev-team-1
    roleRef:
      apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
      kind: ClusterRole
      name: alv-execute-sensitive-op-role
    subjects:
    - kind: User
      name: "alice@example.com"
      apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
    ```

1. If you are using service account to view resources on a cluster in Tanzu Application Platform GUI,
create a `ClusterRole` with a rule that specifies the `execute` verb for the `SensitiveOperationsAccess`
resource and a corresponding `RoleBinding` to bind it to the `tap-gui` service account:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
    kind: ClusterRole
    metadata:
      name: alv-execute-sensitive-op-role
    rules:
    - apiGroups: ['appliveview.apps.tanzu.vmware.com']
      resources:
      - sensitiveoperationsaccesses
      verbs: ['execute']
    ---
    apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
    kind: RoleBinding
    metadata:
      name: alv-execute-sensitive-op-role-binding
      namespace: dev-team-1
    subjects:
    - kind: ServiceAccount
      namespace: tap-gui
      name: tap-gui-viewer
    roleRef:
      kind: ClusterRole
      name: alv-execute-sensitive-op-role
      apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
    ```

1. (Optional) Edit the tap-gui cluster role `k8s-reader` to add a rule that specifies the
`execute` verb for the `SensitiveOperationsAccess` resource in a single cluster setup:

    ```console
    kubectl edit clusterrole k8s-reader -n tap-gui
    ```

1. Add the following rule to the cluster role:

    ```yaml
    - apiGroups: ['appliveview.apps.tanzu.vmware.com']
      resources:
      - sensitiveoperationsaccesses
      verbs: ['execute']
    ```

    >**Note** Executing sensitive operations is deactivated by default.
    You can enable it at the cluster level by setting the `activateSensitiveOperations: true` key in
    the appliveview_connector config or at the individual user level by assigning the roles
    and permissions mentioned earlier.

Commit message:

[TAAP-1399] Change Tanzu Application Platform GUI to Tanzu Developer Portal

app-live-view/improved-security-and-access-control.hbs.md, after:

# Configure security and access control in Application Live View

This topic tells you how to enable improved security and access control in Application Live View
in Tanzu Application Platform (commonly known as TAP). Improved security and access control in
Application Live View secures the REST API exposed by the Application Live View
back end.

For more information about Application Live View packages, see
[Install Application Live View](./install.hbs.md).

## <a id='sec-ac-overview'></a>Security and access control overview

There is one instance of Application Live View back end installed per `view` profile.
Multiple users access this back-end API to fetch actuator data for different applications.
All the REST API calls to the back end are secured.
A token must be passed to the Application Live View back end on each call to the REST API to fetch
actuator data. This token is obtained from Application Live View APIServer.

The Application Live View APIServer generates a unique token upon access validation of a user to a pod.
The Application Live View back end passes this token to the Application Live View connector when
requesting the actuator data.
The Application Live View connector verifies this token by calling the Application Live View APIServer
and proxies the actuator data only if the token is valid.

The Application Live View UI plug-in part of The Tanzu Developer Portal uses the preceding
approach to securely query for the actuator data for a pod.
It requests a token from Application Live View APIServer and passes it in the subsequent calls to the
back end. This ensures that actuator data from the running application is fetched only if the user is
authorized to see the live information for the pod.

The Application Live View UI plug-in relies on Tanzu Developer Portal authentication and
authorization to access the Application Live View APIServer and fetch the Application Live View tokens.

The Tanzu Developer Portal controls the access to Kubernetes resources based on user roles
and permissions for each of the remote clusters.
For more information, see
[View runtime resources on authorization-enabled clusters](../tap-gui/tap-gui-rbac/view-resources-rbac.hbs.md).

For more information about how to set up unrestricted remote cluster visibility, see
[Viewing resources on multiple clusters in Tanzu Developer Portal](../tap-gui/cluster-view-setup.hbs.md).

## <a id='prereqs'></a>Prerequisites

1. You install the Application Live View APIServer package (`apiserver.appliveview.tanzu.vmware.com`)
   in Tanzu Application Platform.
   For more information, see [Install Application Live View APIServer](./install.hbs.md#install-alv-apiserver).

1. Assign users necessary roles and permissions for the Kubernetes clusters.
   For more information about managing role-based access control, see
   [Assign roles and permissions on Kubernetes clusters](../tap-gui/tap-gui-rbac/assigning-kubernetes-roles.hbs.md)

For example: If you are using Service Account to view resources on a cluster in
Tanzu Developer Portal, verify that the `ClusterRole` has rules to
access and request tokens from the Application Live View APIServer.

```yaml
- apiGroups: ['appliveview.apps.tanzu.vmware.com']
  resources:
  - resourceinspectiongrants
  verbs: ['get', 'watch', 'list', 'create']
```

For more information, see [Set up a Service Account to view resources on a
cluster](../tap-gui/cluster-view-setup.hbs.md).

>**Note** With the Service Account approach to view resources on a cluster,
>every user with the Service Account Token with access to view the pods is able
>to see the live information in Application Live View.

## <a id='improved-security'></a> Configure improved security

The improved security feature is enabled by default for Application Live View.

In a Tanzu Application Platform profile install, the Application Live View
connector (`connector.appliveview.tanzu.vmware.com`) and the Tanzu Application
Platform GUI (`tap-gui.tanzu.vmware.com`) are automatically configured to enable
the secure communication between Application Live View components.

You can control this feature by setting the top-level key
`shared.activateAppLiveViewSecureAccessControl` in the `tap-values.yaml`.

For example:

```yaml
shared:
    activateAppLiveViewSecureAccessControl: true
```

To override the security feature at the individual component level, take the
following steps.

### <a id='app-live-view-connector'></a> Application Live View connector

1. (Optional) Change the default installation settings for Application Live View
   connector by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package available get connector.appliveview.tanzu.vmware.com/VERSION-NUMBER --values-schema --namespace tap-install
    ```

    Where `VERSION-NUMBER` is the version of the package listed. For example,
    `1.5.0-build.5`.

    For example:

    ```console
    $ tanzu package available get connector.appliveview.tanzu.vmware.com/1.5.0-build.5 --values-schema --namespace tap-install
      KEY                                   DEFAULT             TYPE        DESCRIPTION
      kubernetes_version                                        string      Optional: The Kubernetes Version. Valid values are '1.24.*', or ''.

      backend.sslDeactivated                false               boolean     Flag for whether to disable SSL.
      backend.caCertData                    cert-in-pem-format  string      CA Cert Data for ingress domain.
      backend.host                          <nil>               string      Domain used to reach the Application Live View back end. Prepend
                                                                            "appliveview" subdomain to the value if you use shared ingress. For
                                                                            example: "example.com" becomes "appliveview.example.com".
      backend.ingressEnabled                false               boolean     Flag for the connector to connect to ingress on back end.

      backend.port                          <nil>               number      Port to reach the Application Live View back end.
      connector.namespace_scoped.enabled    false               boolean     Flag for the connector to run in namespace scope.
      connector.namespace_scoped.namespace  default             string      Namespace to deploy connector.
      kubernetes_distribution                                   string      Kubernetes distribution that this package is being installed on. Accepted
                                                                            values: ['''',''openshift''].
      activateAppLiveViewSecureAccessControl                    boolean     Optional: Configuration required to enable Secure Access Connection between App Live View components.
      activateSensitiveOperations                               boolean     Optional: Configuration to allow connector to execute sensitive operations on a running application.
    ```

    For more information about values schema options, see the properties listed
    earlier.

1. Create `app-live-view-connector-values.yaml` with the following details:

    To override the default security settings for connector, use the following
    values:

     ```yaml
    activateAppLiveViewSecureAccessControl: false
    ```

    By default, activateAppLiveViewSecureAccessControl is set to `true`.

    The `activateSensitiveOperations` key activates/deactivates the execution of
    sensitive operations, such as editing environment variables, downloading
    heap dump data, and changing log levels for the applications in the cluster.
    It is set to `false` by default.

    To enable the sensitive operations, set `activateSensitiveOperations` to
    `true`.

     ```yaml
    activateSensitiveOperations: true
    ```

    To control permissions to execute sensitive operations at a user level, see [Authorize a user to execute sensitive operations](#authorize-a-user-to-execute-sensitive-operations).

1. Install the Application Live View connector package by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package install appliveview-connector -p connector.appliveview.tanzu.vmware.com -v VERSION-NUMBER -n tap-install -f app-live-view-connector-values.yaml
    ```

    Where `VERSION-NUMBER` is the version of the package listed. For example,
    `1.5.0-build.5`.

    For example:

    ```console
    $ tanzu package install appliveview-connector -p connector.appliveview.tanzu.vmware.com -v 1.5.0-build.5 -n tap-install -f app-live-view-connector-values.yaml
    | Installing package 'connector.appliveview.tanzu.vmware.com'
    | Getting namespace 'tap-install'
    | Getting package metadata for 'connector.appliveview.tanzu.vmware.com'
    | Creating service account 'appliveview-connector-tap-install-sa'
    | Creating cluster admin role 'appliveview-connector-tap-install-cluster-role'
    | Creating cluster role binding 'appliveview-connector-tap-install-cluster-rolebinding'
    - Creating package resource
    / Package install status: Reconciling

    Added installed package 'appliveview-connector' in namespace 'tap-install'
    ```

1. Verify the `Application Live View connector` package installation by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package installed get appliveview-connector -n tap-install
    ```

    For example:

    ```console
    tanzu package installed get appliveview-connector -n tap-install                                                                              5s
    | Retrieving installation details for appliveview-connector...
    NAME:                    appliveview-connector
    PACKAGE-NAME:            connector.appliveview.tanzu.vmware.com
    PACKAGE-VERSION:         1.5.0-build.5
    STATUS:                  Reconcile succeeded
    CONDITIONS:              [{ReconcileSucceeded True  }]
    USEFUL-ERROR-MESSAGE:
    ```

    Verify that `STATUS` is `Reconcile succeeded`.

### <a id='app-live-view-ui-plugin'></a> Application Live View UI plug-in

The Application Live View UI plug-in is part of Tanzu Developer Portal.
To override the default security settings for the Application Live View UI
plug-in, take the following steps.

1. (Optional) Make changes to the default installation settings by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package available get tap-gui.tanzu.vmware.com/VERSION-NUMBER --values-schema --namespace tap-install
    ```

    Where `VERSION-NUMBER` is the number you discovered previously. For example,
    `1.4.6`.

    For more information about values schema options, see the individual product
    documentation.

1. Create `tap-gui-values.yaml` and paste in the following code:

    ```yaml
    ingressEnabled: true
    ingressDomain: "INGRESS-DOMAIN"
    app_config:
      catalog:
        locations:
          - type: url
            target: https://GIT-CATALOG-URL/catalog-info.yaml
      appLiveView:
        activateAppLiveViewSecureAccessControl: false
    ```

    Where:

    - `INGRESS-DOMAIN` is the subdomain for the host name that you point at the
      `tanzu-shared-ingress` service's External IP address.
    - `GIT-CATALOG-URL` is the path to the `catalog-info.yaml` catalog
      definition file from either the included Blank catalog (provided as an
      additional download named "Blank Tanzu Developer Portal Catalog")
      or a Backstage-compliant catalog that you've already built and posted on
      the Git infrastructure specified in [Add Tanzu Developer Portal
      integrations](../tap-gui/integrations.hbs.md).

1. Install the package by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package install tap-gui \
     --package-name tap-gui.tanzu.vmware.com \
     --version VERSION -n tap-install \
     -f tap-gui-values.yaml
    ```

    Where `VERSION` is the version that you want. For example, `1.4.6`.

    For example:

    ```console
    $ tanzu package install tap-gui -package-name tap-gui.tanzu.vmware.com --version 1.4.6 -n tap-install -f tap-gui-values.yaml
    - Installing package 'tap-gui.tanzu.vmware.com'
    | Getting package metadata for 'tap-gui.tanzu.vmware.com'
    | Creating service account 'tap-gui-default-sa'
    | Creating cluster admin role 'tap-gui-default-cluster-role'
    | Creating cluster role binding 'tap-gui-default-cluster-rolebinding'
    | Creating secret 'tap-gui-default-values'
    - Creating package resource
    - Package install status: Reconciling

     Added installed package 'tap-gui' in namespace 'tap-install'
    ```

1. Verify that the package installed by running:

    ```console
    tanzu package installed get tap-gui -n tap-install
    ```

    For example:

    ```console
    $ tanzu package installed get tap-gui -n tap-install
    | Retrieving installation details for cc...
    NAME:                    tap-gui
    PACKAGE-NAME:            tap-gui.tanzu.vmware.com
    PACKAGE-VERSION:         1.4.6
    STATUS:                  Reconcile succeeded
    CONDITIONS:              [{ReconcileSucceeded True  }]
    USEFUL-ERROR-MESSAGE:
    ```

    Verify that `STATUS` is `Reconcile succeeded`.

1. To access Tanzu Developer Portal, use the service you exposed in the
`service_type` field in the values file.

## <a id='access-control'></a> Authorize a user to execute sensitive operations

You can limit the access to execute sensitive operations to specific users.
This secures operations such as editing environment variables, downloading heap dump data,
and changing log levels for applications.

To authorize a user to execute these sensitive operations:

1. Create a `ClusterRole` with a rule that specifies the `execute` verb for the `SensitiveOperationsAccess`
resource and a corresponding `RoleBinding` to bind it to a user:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
    kind: ClusterRole
    metadata:
      name: alv-execute-sensitive-op-role
    rules:
    - apiGroups: ['appliveview.apps.tanzu.vmware.com']
      resources:
      - sensitiveoperationsaccesses
      verbs: ['execute']
    ---
    apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
    kind: RoleBinding
    metadata:
      name: alice-alv-execute-sensitive-op-role-binding
      namespace: dev-team-1
    roleRef:
      apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
      kind: ClusterRole
      name: alv-execute-sensitive-op-role
    subjects:
    - kind: User
      name: "alice@example.com"
      apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
    ```

1. If you are using service account to view resources on a cluster in Tanzu Developer Portal,
create a `ClusterRole` with a rule that specifies the `execute` verb for the `SensitiveOperationsAccess`
resource and a corresponding `RoleBinding` to bind it to the `tap-gui` service account:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
    kind: ClusterRole
    metadata:
      name: alv-execute-sensitive-op-role
    rules:
    - apiGroups: ['appliveview.apps.tanzu.vmware.com']
      resources:
      - sensitiveoperationsaccesses
      verbs: ['execute']
    ---
    apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
    kind: RoleBinding
    metadata:
      name: alv-execute-sensitive-op-role-binding
      namespace: dev-team-1
    subjects:
    - kind: ServiceAccount
      namespace: tap-gui
      name: tap-gui-viewer
    roleRef:
      kind: ClusterRole
      name: alv-execute-sensitive-op-role
      apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
    ```

1. (Optional) Edit the tap-gui cluster role `k8s-reader` to add a rule that specifies the
`execute` verb for the `SensitiveOperationsAccess` resource in a single cluster setup:

    ```console
    kubectl edit clusterrole k8s-reader -n tap-gui
    ```

1. Add the following rule to the cluster role:

    ```yaml
    - apiGroups: ['appliveview.apps.tanzu.vmware.com']
      resources:
      - sensitiveoperationsaccesses
      verbs: ['execute']
    ```

    >**Note** Executing sensitive operations is deactivated by default.
    You can enable it at the cluster level by setting the `activateSensitiveOperations: true` key in
    the appliveview_connector config or at the individual user level by assigning the roles
    and permissions mentioned earlier.
