multicluster/getting-started.hbs.md, before:

# Get started with multicluster Tanzu Application Platform

This topic tells you how to validate the implementation of a multicluster topology
by taking a sample workload and passing it by using the supply chains on the Build
and Run clusters.

Use this topic to build an application on the Build profile clusters and run the
application on the Run profile clusters.

You can view the workload and associated objects from Tanzu Developer Portal
(commonly known as TAP GUI) interface on the View profile cluster.

You can take various approaches to configuring the supply chain in this topology,
but the following procedures validate the most basic capabilities.

## <a id='prerequisites'></a> Prerequisites

Before implementing a multicluster topology, complete the following:

1. Complete all [installation steps for the four profiles](installing-multicluster.md): Build, Run, View and Iterate.

1. For the sample workload, VMware uses the same Application Accelerator - Tanzu Java Web App in the non-multicluster [Get Started](../getting-started.md) guide. You can download this accelerator to your own Git infrastructure of choice. You might need to configure additional permissions. Alternatively, you can also use the [application-accelerator-samples GitHub repository](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples).

2. The two supply chains are `ootb-supply-chain-basic` on the Build/Iterate profile and `ootb-delivery-basic` on the Run profile. For the Build/Iterate and Run profiled clusters, perform the steps described in [Setup Developer Namespace](../install-online/set-up-namespaces.hbs.md). This guide assumes that you use the `default` namespace.

3. To set the value of `DEVELOPER_NAMESPACE` to the namespace you setup in the previous step, run:

    ```bash
    export DEVELOPER_NAMESPACE=YOUR-DEVELOPER-NAMESPACE
    ```

    Where:

    - `YOUR-DEVELOPER-NAMESPACE` is the namespace you set up in [Set up developer namespaces to use your installed packages](../install-online/set-up-namespaces.hbs.md). `default` is used in this example.


## <a id='build-cluster'></a> Start the workload on the Build profile cluster

The Build cluster starts by building the necessary bundle for the workload that is delivered to the Run cluster.

1. Use the Tanzu CLI to start the workload down the first supply chain:

    ```bash
    tanzu apps workload create tanzu-java-web-app \
    --git-repo https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples \
    --sub-path tanzu-java-web-app \
    --git-branch main \
    --type web \
    --label app.kubernetes.io/part-of=tanzu-java-web-app \
    --yes \
    --namespace ${DEVELOPER_NAMESPACE}
    ```

1. To monitor the progress of this process, run:

    ```console
    tanzu apps workload tail tanzu-java-web-app --since 10m --timestamp --namespace ${DEVELOPER_NAMESPACE}
    ```

1. To exit the monitoring session, press **CTRL** + **C**.

1. Verify that your supply chain has produced the necessary `ConfigMap` containing `Deliverable` content produced by the `Workload`:

    ```bash
    kubectl get configmap tanzu-java-web-app-deliverable --namespace ${DEVELOPER_NAMESPACE} -o go-template='\{{.data.deliverable}}'
    ```

    The output resembles the following:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: carto.run/v1alpha1
    kind: Deliverable
    metadata:
      name: tanzu-java-web-app-deliverable
      labels:
        apis.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/register-api: "true"
        app.kubernetes.io/part-of: tanzu-java-web-app
        apps.tanzu.vmware.com/workload-type: web
        app.kubernetes.io/component: deliverable
        app.tanzu.vmware.com/deliverable-type: web
    spec:
      params:
      - name: gitops_ssh_secret
        value: ""
      source:
        git:
          url: http://git-server.default.svc.cluster.local/app-namespace/tanzu-java-web-app
          ref:
            branch: main
    ```

1. Store the `Deliverable` content, which you can take to the Run profile clusters from the `ConfigMap` by running:

   ```console
   kubectl get configmap tanzu-java-web-app-deliverable -n ${DEVELOPER_NAMESPACE} -o go-template='\{{.data.deliverable}}' > deliverable.yaml
   ```

1. Take this `Deliverable` file to the Run profile clusters by running:

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f deliverable.yaml --namespace ${DEVELOPER_NAMESPACE}
    ```

1. Verify that this `Deliverable` is started and `Ready` by running:

    ```bash
    kubectl get deliverables --namespace ${DEVELOPER_NAMESPACE}
    ```

    The output resembles the following:

    ```bash
    kubectl get deliverables --namespace default
    NAME                 SOURCE                                                                                                                DELIVERY         READY   REASON   AGE
    tanzu-java-web-app   tapmulticloud.azurecr.io/tap-multi-build-dev/tanzu-java-web-app-default-bundle:xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-1a7beafd6389   delivery-basic   True    Ready    7m2s
    ```

1. To test the application, query the URL for the application. Look for the `httpProxy` by running:

    ```bash
    kubectl get httpproxy --namespace ${DEVELOPER_NAMESPACE}
    ```

    The output resembles the following:

    ```bash
    kubectl get httpproxy --namespace default
    NAME                                                              FQDN                                                       TLS SECRET   STATUS   STATUS DESCRIPTION
    tanzu-java-web-app-contour-a98df54e3629c5ae9c82a395501ee1fdtanz   tanzu-java-web-app.default.svc.cluster.local                            valid    Valid HTTPProxy
    tanzu-java-web-app-contour-e1d997a9ff9e7dfb6c22087e0ce6fd7ftanz   tanzu-java-web-app.default.apps.run.multi.kapplegate.com                valid    Valid HTTPProxy
    tanzu-java-web-app-contour-tanzu-java-web-app.default             tanzu-java-web-app.default                                              valid    Valid HTTPProxy
    tanzu-java-web-app-contour-tanzu-java-web-app.default.svc         tanzu-java-web-app.default.svc                                          valid    Valid HTTPProxy
    ```

    Select the URL that corresponds to the domain you specified in your Run cluster's profile and enter it into a browser. Expect to see the message "Greetings from Spring Boot + Tanzu!".

1. View the component in Tanzu Developer Portal, by following [these steps](../tap-gui/catalog/catalog-operations.md#register-comp) and using the [catalog file](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples/blob/main/tanzu-java-web-app/catalog/catalog-info.yaml) from the sample accelerator in GitHub.

Commit message:

[TAAP-1399] Add formerly known text to many topics

multicluster/getting-started.hbs.md, after:

# Get started with multicluster Tanzu Application Platform

This topic tells you how to validate the implementation of a multicluster topology
by taking a sample workload and passing it by using the supply chains on the Build
and Run clusters.

Use this topic to build an application on the Build profile clusters and run the
application on the Run profile clusters.

You can view the workload and associated objects from Tanzu Developer Portal
(formerly named Tanzu Application Platform GUI) interface on the View profile cluster.

You can take various approaches to configuring the supply chain in this topology,
but the following procedures validate the most basic capabilities.

## <a id='prerequisites'></a> Prerequisites

Before implementing a multicluster topology, complete the following:

1. Complete all [installation steps for the four profiles](installing-multicluster.md): Build, Run, View and Iterate.

1. For the sample workload, VMware uses the same Application Accelerator - Tanzu Java Web App in the non-multicluster [Get Started](../getting-started.md) guide. You can download this accelerator to your own Git infrastructure of choice. You might need to configure additional permissions. Alternatively, you can also use the [application-accelerator-samples GitHub repository](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples).

2. The two supply chains are `ootb-supply-chain-basic` on the Build/Iterate profile and `ootb-delivery-basic` on the Run profile. For the Build/Iterate and Run profiled clusters, perform the steps described in [Setup Developer Namespace](../install-online/set-up-namespaces.hbs.md). This guide assumes that you use the `default` namespace.

3. To set the value of `DEVELOPER_NAMESPACE` to the namespace you setup in the previous step, run:

    ```bash
    export DEVELOPER_NAMESPACE=YOUR-DEVELOPER-NAMESPACE
    ```

    Where:

    - `YOUR-DEVELOPER-NAMESPACE` is the namespace you set up in [Set up developer namespaces to use your installed packages](../install-online/set-up-namespaces.hbs.md). `default` is used in this example.


## <a id='build-cluster'></a> Start the workload on the Build profile cluster

The Build cluster starts by building the necessary bundle for the workload that is delivered to the Run cluster.

1. Use the Tanzu CLI to start the workload down the first supply chain:

    ```bash
    tanzu apps workload create tanzu-java-web-app \
    --git-repo https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples \
    --sub-path tanzu-java-web-app \
    --git-branch main \
    --type web \
    --label app.kubernetes.io/part-of=tanzu-java-web-app \
    --yes \
    --namespace ${DEVELOPER_NAMESPACE}
    ```

1. To monitor the progress of this process, run:

    ```console
    tanzu apps workload tail tanzu-java-web-app --since 10m --timestamp --namespace ${DEVELOPER_NAMESPACE}
    ```

1. To exit the monitoring session, press **CTRL** + **C**.

1. Verify that your supply chain has produced the necessary `ConfigMap` containing `Deliverable` content produced by the `Workload`:

    ```bash
    kubectl get configmap tanzu-java-web-app-deliverable --namespace ${DEVELOPER_NAMESPACE} -o go-template='\{{.data.deliverable}}'
    ```

    The output resembles the following:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: carto.run/v1alpha1
    kind: Deliverable
    metadata:
      name: tanzu-java-web-app-deliverable
      labels:
        apis.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/register-api: "true"
        app.kubernetes.io/part-of: tanzu-java-web-app
        apps.tanzu.vmware.com/workload-type: web
        app.kubernetes.io/component: deliverable
        app.tanzu.vmware.com/deliverable-type: web
    spec:
      params:
      - name: gitops_ssh_secret
        value: ""
      source:
        git:
          url: http://git-server.default.svc.cluster.local/app-namespace/tanzu-java-web-app
          ref:
            branch: main
    ```

1. Store the `Deliverable` content, which you can take to the Run profile clusters from the `ConfigMap` by running:

   ```console
   kubectl get configmap tanzu-java-web-app-deliverable -n ${DEVELOPER_NAMESPACE} -o go-template='\{{.data.deliverable}}' > deliverable.yaml
   ```

1. Take this `Deliverable` file to the Run profile clusters by running:

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f deliverable.yaml --namespace ${DEVELOPER_NAMESPACE}
    ```

1. Verify that this `Deliverable` is started and `Ready` by running:

    ```bash
    kubectl get deliverables --namespace ${DEVELOPER_NAMESPACE}
    ```

    The output resembles the following:

    ```bash
    kubectl get deliverables --namespace default
    NAME                 SOURCE                                                                                                                DELIVERY         READY   REASON   AGE
    tanzu-java-web-app   tapmulticloud.azurecr.io/tap-multi-build-dev/tanzu-java-web-app-default-bundle:xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-1a7beafd6389   delivery-basic   True    Ready    7m2s
    ```

1. To test the application, query the URL for the application. Look for the `httpProxy` by running:

    ```bash
    kubectl get httpproxy --namespace ${DEVELOPER_NAMESPACE}
    ```

    The output resembles the following:

    ```bash
    kubectl get httpproxy --namespace default
    NAME                                                              FQDN                                                       TLS SECRET   STATUS   STATUS DESCRIPTION
    tanzu-java-web-app-contour-a98df54e3629c5ae9c82a395501ee1fdtanz   tanzu-java-web-app.default.svc.cluster.local                            valid    Valid HTTPProxy
    tanzu-java-web-app-contour-e1d997a9ff9e7dfb6c22087e0ce6fd7ftanz   tanzu-java-web-app.default.apps.run.multi.kapplegate.com                valid    Valid HTTPProxy
    tanzu-java-web-app-contour-tanzu-java-web-app.default             tanzu-java-web-app.default                                              valid    Valid HTTPProxy
    tanzu-java-web-app-contour-tanzu-java-web-app.default.svc         tanzu-java-web-app.default.svc                                          valid    Valid HTTPProxy
    ```

    Select the URL that corresponds to the domain you specified in your Run cluster's profile and enter it into a browser. Expect to see the message "Greetings from Spring Boot + Tanzu!".

1. View the component in Tanzu Developer Portal, by following [these steps](../tap-gui/catalog/catalog-operations.md#register-comp) and using the [catalog file](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples/blob/main/tanzu-java-web-app/catalog/catalog-info.yaml) from the sample accelerator in GitHub.
