application-accelerator/troubleshooting.hbs.md, before:

# Troubleshooting Application Accelerator for VMware Tanzu

This topic provides troubleshooting steps for development, accelerator authorship, and operations issues in Application Accelerator.

## <a id="dev-issues"></a> Development issues

### <a id="fail-generate"></a>Failure to generate a new project

#### <a id="uri-not-absolute-error"></a>`URI is not absolute` error

The `generate` command fails with the following error:

```console
% tanzu accelerator generate test --server-url https://accelerator.example.com
Error: there was an error generating the accelerator, the server response was: "URI is not absolute"

Use:
  tanzu accelerator generate [flags]

Examples:
  tanzu accelerator generate <accelerator-name> --options '{"projectName":"test"}'

Flags:
  -h, --help                  help for generate
      --options string        options JSON string
      --options-file string   path to file containing options JSON string
      --output-dir string     directory that the zip file will be written to
      --server-url string     the URL for the Application Accelerator server

Global Flags:
      --context name      name of the kubeconfig context to use (default is current-context defined by kubeconfig)
      --kubeconfig file   kubeconfig file (default is $HOME/.kube/config)

there was an error generating the accelerator, the server response was: "URI is not absolute"

Error: exit status 1

✖  exit status 1
```

This indicates that the accelerator resource requested is not in a `READY` state.
Review the instructions in the [When Accelerator ready column is false](#ts-ready-false) section or
contact your system admin.

## <a id="authorship-issues"></a> Accelerator authorship issues

### <a id="tips"></a>General tips

#### <a id="speed-reconciliation"></a>Speed up the reconciliation of the accelerator

Set the `git.interval` to make the accelerator reconcile sooner.
The default interval is 10 minutes, which is too long when developing an accelerator.

You can set this when using the YAML manifest:

```yaml
apiVersion: accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: Accelerator
metadata:
  name: test-accelerator
spec:
  git:
    url: https://github.com/trisberg/test-accelerator
    ref:
      branch: main
    interval: 10s
```

You can also set this when creating the accelerator resource. To do so from the Tanzu CLI, run:

``` console
tanzu accelerator create test-accelerator --git-repo https://github.com/trisberg/test-accelerator --git-branch main --interval 10s
```

#### <a id="use-source-image"></a>Use a source image with local accelerator source directory

You don't have to use a Git repository when developing an accelerator.
You can create an accelerator based on content in a local directory using `--local-path` when
creating the accelerator resource.

Push the local path content to an OCI image by running:

```console
tanzu accelerator create test-accelerator --local-path . --source-image REPO-PREFIX/test-accelerator --interval 10s
```

Where `REPO-PREFIX` is your own repository prefix.
Use a repository that the deployed Application Accelerator system can access.

The interval is 10s so that you can push changes to the source-image repository and get faster
reconcile time for the accelerator resource.
When you have made changes to your accelerator source, push those changes by running:

```console
tanzu accelerator push --local-path . --source-image REPO-PREFIX/test-accelerator
```

Where `REPO-PREFIX` is your own repository prefix.
Use a repository that is accessible to the deployed Application Accelerator system.

### <a id="expression-eval-errors"></a>Expression evaluation errors

Expression evaluation errors include:

- Expression `evaluated to null`, such as:

    ```console
    Could not read response from accelerator: java.lang.IllegalArgumentException: Expression '#mytestexp' evaluated to null
    ```

    In most cases, a typo in the variable name causes this error.
    Compare the expression with the defined options or any variables declared with `let`.

- `could not parse SpEL expression`, such as:

    ```console
    Could not read response from accelerator: Error reading manifest:could not parse SpEL expression at [Source: (InputStreamReader); line: 65, column: 1] (through reference chain: com.vmware.tanzu.accelerator.engine.manifest.Manifest["engine"]->com.vmware.tanzu.accelerator.engine.transform.transforms.Combo["let"]->java.util.ArrayList[0]->com.vmware.tanzu.accelerator.engine.transform.transforms.Let$DerivedSymbol["expression"])
    ```

    In most cases, an error in a `let` expression causes this error.
    Review the error message and, for more information, see [SpEL samples](creating-accelerators/spel-samples.md).

- `SpelEvaluationException`, such as:

    ```console
    Could not read response from accelerator: org.springframework.expression.spel.SpelEvaluationException: EL1007E: Property or field 'test' cannot be found on null
    ```

    In most cases, an error in a transform expression causes this error.
    Review the error message and, for more information, see [SpEL samples](creating-accelerators/spel-samples.md).

## <a id="ops-issues"></a> Operations issues

### <a id="clean-up-accelerators"></a>Accelerator persists in Tanzu Application Platform GUI after deletion

If an accelerator still displays in the Tanzu Application Platform GUI after it is deleted using the `tanzu accelerator delete` command, complete the following steps to delete:

1. Navigate to your instance of the Tanzu Application Platform GUI.

2. Search for the accelerator which should be deleted and select it.

3. On the top right of the window, click the three dots, and select **Unregister Template**.

The accelerator is not longer displayed in the Tanzu Application Platform GUI Accelerator Catalog.

### <a id="check-status"></a>Check status of accelerator resources

Verify the status of accelerator resources by using kubectl or the Tanzu CLI:

- From kubectl, run:

    ```console
    kubectl get accelerators.accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com -n accelerator-system
    ```

- From the Tanzu CLI, run:

    ```console
    tanzu accelerator list
    ```

Verify that the `READY` status is `true` for all accelerators.

### <a id="ready-blank"></a>When Accelerator ready column is blank

1. View the status of `accelerator-system` by running:

    ```console
    kubectl get deployment -n accelerator-system
    ```

    Example output:

    ```console
    NAME                             READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
    acc-engine                       1/1     1            1           3d5h
    acc-server                       1/1     1            1           2d1h
    accelerator-controller-manager   0/1     1            0           3d5h
    ```

2. View the logs for any component with no Pods available by running:

    ```console
    kubectl logs deployment/COMPONENT-NAME/ -n accelerator-system -p
    ```

    Where `COMPONENT-NAME` is the component with no pods you retrieved in the previous step.

    - If the log has the following error then the FluxCD source-controller is not installed:

        ```console
        2021-11-18T20:55:18.963Z ERROR setup problem running manager {"error": "failed to wait for accelerator caches to sync: no matches for kind \"GitRepository\" in version \"source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta1\""}
        ```

    - If the log has the following error, the Tanzu Application Platform source-controller is not installed:

        ```console
        2021-11-18T20:50:10.557Z ERROR setup problem running manager {"error": "failed to wait for accelerator caches to sync: no matches for kind \"ImageRepository\" in version \"source.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1\""}
        ```

### <a id="ts-ready-false"></a> When Accelerator ready column is false

View the `REASON` column for non-ready accelerators. Run:

```console
kubectl get accelerators.accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com -n accelerator-system
```

#### <a id="reason-GitRepositoryResolutionFailed"></a> REASON: `GitRepositoryResolutionFailed`

For example:

```console
$ kubectl get accelerators.accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com -n accelerator-system
NAME        READY   REASON                             AGE
more-fun    False   GitRepositoryResolutionFailed      28s
```

1. View the resource status. Run:

    ```console
    kubectl get -oyaml accelerators.accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com -n accelerator-system hello-fun
    ```

2. Read `status.conditions.message` near the end of the output to learn the likely
cause of failure. For example:

    ```yaml
    status:
      address:
        url: http://accelerator-engine.accelerator-system.svc.cluster.local/invocations
      artifact:
        message: 'unable to clone ''https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples'',
          error: couldn''t find remote ref "refs/heads/test"'
        ready: false
        url: ""
      conditions:
      - lastTransitionTime: "2021-11-18T21:05:47Z"
        message: |-
          failed to resolve GitRepository
          unable to clone 'https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples', error: couldn't find remote ref "refs/heads/test"
        reason: GitRepositoryResolutionFailed
        status: "False"
        type: Ready
      description: Test-git
      observedGeneration: 1
    ```

    In this example, `couldn't find remote ref "refs/heads/test"` reveals that the branch or tag
    specified doesn't exist.

    Another common problem is that the Git repository doesn't exist.
    For example:

    ```yaml
    status:
      address:
        url: http://accelerator-engine.accelerator-system.svc.cluster.local/invocations
      artifact:
        message: 'unable to clone ''https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-sampl'',
          error: authentication required'
        ready: false
        url: ""
      conditions:
      - lastTransitionTime: "2021-11-18T21:09:52Z"
        message: |-
          failed to resolve GitRepository
          unable to clone 'https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-sampl', error: authentication required
        reason: GitRepositoryResolutionFailed
        status: "False"
        type: Ready
      description: Test-git
      observedGeneration: 1
    ```

    An error message about failed authentication might display because the Git repository doesn't
    exist. For example:

    ```console
    unable to clone 'https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-sampl', error: authentication required
    ```

#### <a id="reason-GitRepositoryResolutionPending"></a> REASON: `GitRepositoryResolutionPending`

For example:

```console
$ kubectl get accelerators.accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com -n accelerator-system
NAME        READY   REASON                             AGE
more-fun    False   GitRepositoryResolutionPending     28s
```

1. See the resource status. Run:

    ```console
    kubectl get -oyaml accelerators.accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com -n accelerator-system hello-fun
    ```

2. Locate `status.conditions` at the end of the output. For example:

    ```yaml
    status:
      address:
        url: http://accelerator-engine.accelerator-system.svc.cluster.local/invocations
      artifact:
        message: ""
        ready: false
        url: ""
      conditions:
      - lastTransitionTime: "2021-11-18T20:17:38Z"
        message: GitRepository not yet resolved
        reason: GitRepositoryResolutionPending
        status: "False"
        type: Ready
      description: Test-git
      observedGeneration: 1
    ```

3. Verify that the Flux system is running and that the `READY` column has `1/1`. Run:

    ```console
    kubectl get -n flux-system deployment/source-controller
    ```

    Example output:

    ```console
    NAME                READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
    source-controller   1/1     0            0           5d4h
    ```

#### <a id="reason-ImageRepositoryResolutionPending"></a> REASON: `ImageRepositoryResolutionPending`

For example:

```console
$ kubectl get accelerators.accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com -n accelerator-system
NAME        READY   REASON                             AGE
more-fun    False   ImageRepositoryResolutionPending   28s
```

1. See the resource status. Run:

    ```console
    kubectl get -oyaml accelerators.accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com -n accelerator-system hello-fun
    ```

2. Locate `status.conditions` at the end of the output. For example:

    ```console
    $ kubectl get -oyaml accelerators.accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com -n accelerator-system more-fun

    apiVersion: accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
    kind: Accelerator
    metadata:
      annotations:
        kubectl.kubernetes.io/last-applied-configuration: |
          {"apiVersion":"accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1","kind":"Accelerator","metadata":{"annotations":{},"name":"more-fun","namespace":"accelerator-system"},"spec":{"description":"Test-image","source":{"image":"trisberg/more-fun-source"}}}
      creationTimestamp: "2021-11-18T20:32:36Z"
      generation: 1
      name: more-fun
      namespace: accelerator-system
      resourceVersion: "605401"
      uid: 407b565d-14aa-44fe-ad8d-c9b3c3a7e5ce
    spec:
      description: Test-image
      source:
        image: trisberg/more-fun-source
    status:
      address:
        url: http://accelerator-engine.accelerator-system.svc.cluster.local/invocations
      artifact:
        message: ""
        ready: false
        url: ""
      conditions:
      - lastTransitionTime: "2021-11-18T20:32:36Z"
        message: ImageRepository not yet resolved
        reason: ImageRepositoryResolutionPending
        status: "False"
        type: Ready
      description: Test-image
      observedGeneration: 1
    ```

3. Verify that Tanzu Application Platform source-controller system is running and
the `READY` column has `1/1`. Run:

    ```console
    kubectl get -n source-system deployment/source-controller-manager
    ```

    Expected output:

    ```console
    NAME                        READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
    source-controller-manager   1/1     0            0           5d5h
    ```

Commit message:

[TAAP-1399] Change Tanzu Application Platform GUI to Tanzu Developer Portal

application-accelerator/troubleshooting.hbs.md, after:

# Troubleshooting Application Accelerator for VMware Tanzu

This topic provides troubleshooting steps for development, accelerator authorship, and operations issues in Application Accelerator.

## <a id="dev-issues"></a> Development issues

### <a id="fail-generate"></a>Failure to generate a new project

#### <a id="uri-not-absolute-error"></a>`URI is not absolute` error

The `generate` command fails with the following error:

```console
% tanzu accelerator generate test --server-url https://accelerator.example.com
Error: there was an error generating the accelerator, the server response was: "URI is not absolute"

Use:
  tanzu accelerator generate [flags]

Examples:
  tanzu accelerator generate <accelerator-name> --options '{"projectName":"test"}'

Flags:
  -h, --help                  help for generate
      --options string        options JSON string
      --options-file string   path to file containing options JSON string
      --output-dir string     directory that the zip file will be written to
      --server-url string     the URL for the Application Accelerator server

Global Flags:
      --context name      name of the kubeconfig context to use (default is current-context defined by kubeconfig)
      --kubeconfig file   kubeconfig file (default is $HOME/.kube/config)

there was an error generating the accelerator, the server response was: "URI is not absolute"

Error: exit status 1

✖  exit status 1
```

This indicates that the accelerator resource requested is not in a `READY` state.
Review the instructions in the [When Accelerator ready column is false](#ts-ready-false) section or
contact your system admin.

## <a id="authorship-issues"></a> Accelerator authorship issues

### <a id="tips"></a>General tips

#### <a id="speed-reconciliation"></a>Speed up the reconciliation of the accelerator

Set the `git.interval` to make the accelerator reconcile sooner.
The default interval is 10 minutes, which is too long when developing an accelerator.

You can set this when using the YAML manifest:

```yaml
apiVersion: accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: Accelerator
metadata:
  name: test-accelerator
spec:
  git:
    url: https://github.com/trisberg/test-accelerator
    ref:
      branch: main
    interval: 10s
```

You can also set this when creating the accelerator resource. To do so from the Tanzu CLI, run:

``` console
tanzu accelerator create test-accelerator --git-repo https://github.com/trisberg/test-accelerator --git-branch main --interval 10s
```

#### <a id="use-source-image"></a>Use a source image with local accelerator source directory

You don't have to use a Git repository when developing an accelerator.
You can create an accelerator based on content in a local directory using `--local-path` when
creating the accelerator resource.

Push the local path content to an OCI image by running:

```console
tanzu accelerator create test-accelerator --local-path . --source-image REPO-PREFIX/test-accelerator --interval 10s
```

Where `REPO-PREFIX` is your own repository prefix.
Use a repository that the deployed Application Accelerator system can access.

The interval is 10s so that you can push changes to the source-image repository and get faster
reconcile time for the accelerator resource.
When you have made changes to your accelerator source, push those changes by running:

```console
tanzu accelerator push --local-path . --source-image REPO-PREFIX/test-accelerator
```

Where `REPO-PREFIX` is your own repository prefix.
Use a repository that is accessible to the deployed Application Accelerator system.

### <a id="expression-eval-errors"></a>Expression evaluation errors

Expression evaluation errors include:

- Expression `evaluated to null`, such as:

    ```console
    Could not read response from accelerator: java.lang.IllegalArgumentException: Expression '#mytestexp' evaluated to null
    ```

    In most cases, a typo in the variable name causes this error.
    Compare the expression with the defined options or any variables declared with `let`.

- `could not parse SpEL expression`, such as:

    ```console
    Could not read response from accelerator: Error reading manifest:could not parse SpEL expression at [Source: (InputStreamReader); line: 65, column: 1] (through reference chain: com.vmware.tanzu.accelerator.engine.manifest.Manifest["engine"]->com.vmware.tanzu.accelerator.engine.transform.transforms.Combo["let"]->java.util.ArrayList[0]->com.vmware.tanzu.accelerator.engine.transform.transforms.Let$DerivedSymbol["expression"])
    ```

    In most cases, an error in a `let` expression causes this error.
    Review the error message and, for more information, see [SpEL samples](creating-accelerators/spel-samples.md).

- `SpelEvaluationException`, such as:

    ```console
    Could not read response from accelerator: org.springframework.expression.spel.SpelEvaluationException: EL1007E: Property or field 'test' cannot be found on null
    ```

    In most cases, an error in a transform expression causes this error.
    Review the error message and, for more information, see [SpEL samples](creating-accelerators/spel-samples.md).

## <a id="ops-issues"></a> Operations issues

### <a id="clean-up-accelerators"></a>Accelerator persists in Tanzu Developer Portal after deletion

If an accelerator still displays in the Tanzu Developer Portal after it is deleted using the `tanzu accelerator delete` command, complete the following steps to delete:

1. Navigate to your instance of the Tanzu Developer Portal.

2. Search for the accelerator which should be deleted and select it.

3. On the top right of the window, click the three dots, and select **Unregister Template**.

The accelerator is not longer displayed in the Tanzu Developer Portal Accelerator Catalog.

### <a id="check-status"></a>Check status of accelerator resources

Verify the status of accelerator resources by using kubectl or the Tanzu CLI:

- From kubectl, run:

    ```console
    kubectl get accelerators.accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com -n accelerator-system
    ```

- From the Tanzu CLI, run:

    ```console
    tanzu accelerator list
    ```

Verify that the `READY` status is `true` for all accelerators.

### <a id="ready-blank"></a>When Accelerator ready column is blank

1. View the status of `accelerator-system` by running:

    ```console
    kubectl get deployment -n accelerator-system
    ```

    Example output:

    ```console
    NAME                             READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
    acc-engine                       1/1     1            1           3d5h
    acc-server                       1/1     1            1           2d1h
    accelerator-controller-manager   0/1     1            0           3d5h
    ```

2. View the logs for any component with no Pods available by running:

    ```console
    kubectl logs deployment/COMPONENT-NAME/ -n accelerator-system -p
    ```

    Where `COMPONENT-NAME` is the component with no pods you retrieved in the previous step.

    - If the log has the following error then the FluxCD source-controller is not installed:

        ```console
        2021-11-18T20:55:18.963Z ERROR setup problem running manager {"error": "failed to wait for accelerator caches to sync: no matches for kind \"GitRepository\" in version \"source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta1\""}
        ```

    - If the log has the following error, the Tanzu Application Platform source-controller is not installed:

        ```console
        2021-11-18T20:50:10.557Z ERROR setup problem running manager {"error": "failed to wait for accelerator caches to sync: no matches for kind \"ImageRepository\" in version \"source.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1\""}
        ```

### <a id="ts-ready-false"></a> When Accelerator ready column is false

View the `REASON` column for non-ready accelerators. Run:

```console
kubectl get accelerators.accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com -n accelerator-system
```

#### <a id="reason-GitRepositoryResolutionFailed"></a> REASON: `GitRepositoryResolutionFailed`

For example:

```console
$ kubectl get accelerators.accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com -n accelerator-system
NAME        READY   REASON                             AGE
more-fun    False   GitRepositoryResolutionFailed      28s
```

1. View the resource status. Run:

    ```console
    kubectl get -oyaml accelerators.accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com -n accelerator-system hello-fun
    ```

2. Read `status.conditions.message` near the end of the output to learn the likely
cause of failure. For example:

    ```yaml
    status:
      address:
        url: http://accelerator-engine.accelerator-system.svc.cluster.local/invocations
      artifact:
        message: 'unable to clone ''https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples'',
          error: couldn''t find remote ref "refs/heads/test"'
        ready: false
        url: ""
      conditions:
      - lastTransitionTime: "2021-11-18T21:05:47Z"
        message: |-
          failed to resolve GitRepository
          unable to clone 'https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples', error: couldn't find remote ref "refs/heads/test"
        reason: GitRepositoryResolutionFailed
        status: "False"
        type: Ready
      description: Test-git
      observedGeneration: 1
    ```

    In this example, `couldn't find remote ref "refs/heads/test"` reveals that the branch or tag
    specified doesn't exist.

    Another common problem is that the Git repository doesn't exist.
    For example:

    ```yaml
    status:
      address:
        url: http://accelerator-engine.accelerator-system.svc.cluster.local/invocations
      artifact:
        message: 'unable to clone ''https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-sampl'',
          error: authentication required'
        ready: false
        url: ""
      conditions:
      - lastTransitionTime: "2021-11-18T21:09:52Z"
        message: |-
          failed to resolve GitRepository
          unable to clone 'https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-sampl', error: authentication required
        reason: GitRepositoryResolutionFailed
        status: "False"
        type: Ready
      description: Test-git
      observedGeneration: 1
    ```

    An error message about failed authentication might display because the Git repository doesn't
    exist. For example:

    ```console
    unable to clone 'https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-sampl', error: authentication required
    ```

#### <a id="reason-GitRepositoryResolutionPending"></a> REASON: `GitRepositoryResolutionPending`

For example:

```console
$ kubectl get accelerators.accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com -n accelerator-system
NAME        READY   REASON                             AGE
more-fun    False   GitRepositoryResolutionPending     28s
```

1. See the resource status. Run:

    ```console
    kubectl get -oyaml accelerators.accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com -n accelerator-system hello-fun
    ```

2. Locate `status.conditions` at the end of the output. For example:

    ```yaml
    status:
      address:
        url: http://accelerator-engine.accelerator-system.svc.cluster.local/invocations
      artifact:
        message: ""
        ready: false
        url: ""
      conditions:
      - lastTransitionTime: "2021-11-18T20:17:38Z"
        message: GitRepository not yet resolved
        reason: GitRepositoryResolutionPending
        status: "False"
        type: Ready
      description: Test-git
      observedGeneration: 1
    ```

3. Verify that the Flux system is running and that the `READY` column has `1/1`. Run:

    ```console
    kubectl get -n flux-system deployment/source-controller
    ```

    Example output:

    ```console
    NAME                READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
    source-controller   1/1     0            0           5d4h
    ```

#### <a id="reason-ImageRepositoryResolutionPending"></a> REASON: `ImageRepositoryResolutionPending`

For example:

```console
$ kubectl get accelerators.accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com -n accelerator-system
NAME        READY   REASON                             AGE
more-fun    False   ImageRepositoryResolutionPending   28s
```

1. See the resource status. Run:

    ```console
    kubectl get -oyaml accelerators.accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com -n accelerator-system hello-fun
    ```

2. Locate `status.conditions` at the end of the output. For example:

    ```console
    $ kubectl get -oyaml accelerators.accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com -n accelerator-system more-fun

    apiVersion: accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
    kind: Accelerator
    metadata:
      annotations:
        kubectl.kubernetes.io/last-applied-configuration: |
          {"apiVersion":"accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1","kind":"Accelerator","metadata":{"annotations":{},"name":"more-fun","namespace":"accelerator-system"},"spec":{"description":"Test-image","source":{"image":"trisberg/more-fun-source"}}}
      creationTimestamp: "2021-11-18T20:32:36Z"
      generation: 1
      name: more-fun
      namespace: accelerator-system
      resourceVersion: "605401"
      uid: 407b565d-14aa-44fe-ad8d-c9b3c3a7e5ce
    spec:
      description: Test-image
      source:
        image: trisberg/more-fun-source
    status:
      address:
        url: http://accelerator-engine.accelerator-system.svc.cluster.local/invocations
      artifact:
        message: ""
        ready: false
        url: ""
      conditions:
      - lastTransitionTime: "2021-11-18T20:32:36Z"
        message: ImageRepository not yet resolved
        reason: ImageRepositoryResolutionPending
        status: "False"
        type: Ready
      description: Test-image
      observedGeneration: 1
    ```

3. Verify that Tanzu Application Platform source-controller system is running and
the `READY` column has `1/1`. Run:

    ```console
    kubectl get -n source-system deployment/source-controller-manager
    ```

    Expected output:

    ```console
    NAME                        READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
    source-controller-manager   1/1     0            0           5d5h
    ```
