crossplane/reference/package-values.hbs.md, before:

# Package values for Crossplane

This topic lists the keys and values you can use to configure the behavior of the Crossplane package.
Configuration is split between configuration specific to Crossplane in Tanzu Application Platform
and configuration of the Upbound Universal Crossplane (UXP) Helm Chart.

If you are applying configuration to Tanzu Application Platform through the use of profiles and the `tap-values.yaml`,
all configuration must exist under the `crossplane` top-level key.

For example:

```yaml
crossplane:
  replicas: 3
```

## <a id="tap-specific"></a> Tanzu Application Platform configuration

The following table lists configuration specific to Crossplane in Tanzu Application Platform.

| KEY                                                  |DEFAULT                                     |TYPE    | DESCRIPTION |
|------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|--------|-------------|
| kubernetes_version                                   |`""`                                        |string  | Optional: The Kubernetes version. Valid values are `''` or take the form `'1.25.0'` |
| kubernetes_distribution                              |`""`                                        |string  | Optional: The Kubernetes distribution. Valid values are `''` or `'openshift'` |

## <a id="crossplane"></a> Standard Crossplane configuration

The following table lists configuration for the UXP Helm Chart.

| KEY                                                  |DEFAULT                                       |TYPE    | DESCRIPTION |
|------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------|--------|-------------|
| replicas                                             |`1`                                           |integer | |
| serviceAccount.customAnnotations                     |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| bootstrapper.resources                               |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| bootstrapper.config.args                             |                                            |array | |
| bootstrapper.config.debugMode                        |`false`                                       |boolean | |
| bootstrapper.config.envVars                          |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| bootstrapper.image.pullPolicy                        |`IfNotPresent`                                |string | |
| bootstrapper.image.repository                        |`xpkg.upbound.io/upbound/uxp-bootstrapper`    |string | |
| bootstrapper.image.tag                               |`v1.11.0-up.1 `                               |string | |
| maxReconcileRate                                     |`""`                                          |string  | How frequently Crossplane reconciles its resources in seconds.|
| metrics.enabled                                      |`false`                                       |boolean | |
| securityContextCrossplane.allowPrivilegeEscalation   |`false`                                       |boolean | |
| securityContextCrossplane.readOnlyRootFilesystem     |`true`                                        |boolean | |
| securityContextCrossplane.runAsGroup                 |`65532`                                       |integer | |
| securityContextCrossplane.runAsUser                  |`65532`                                       |integer | |
| xfn.securityContext.allowPrivilegeEscalation         |`false`                                       |boolean | |
| xfn.securityContext.capabilities.add                 |                                            |array   | |
| xfn.securityContext.readOnlyRootFilesystem           |`true`                                        |boolean | |
| xfn.securityContext.runAsGroup                       |`65532`                                       |integer | |
| xfn.securityContext.runAsUser                        |`65532`                                       |integer | |
| xfn.securityContext.seccompProfile.type              |`Unconfined`                                  |string | |
| xfn.args                                             |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| xfn.cache.configMap                                  |`""`                                          |string | |
| xfn.cache.medium                                     |`""`                                          |string | |
| xfn.cache.pvc                                        |`""`                                          |string | |
| xfn.cache.sizeLimit                                  |`1Gi`                                         |string | |
| xfn.enabled                                          |`false`                                       |boolean | |
| xfn.extraEnvVars                                     |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| xfn.image.pullPolicy                                 |`IfNotPresent`                                |string | |
| xfn.image.repository                                 |`crossplane/xfn`                              |string | |
| xfn.image.tag                                        |`v1.11.0-up.1`                                |string | |
| xfn.resources.requests.cpu                           |`1000m`                                       |string | |
| xfn.resources.requests.memory                        |`1Gi`                                         |string | |
| xfn.resources.limits.memory                          |`2Gi`                                         |string | |
| xfn.resources.limits.cpu                             |`2000m`                                       |string | |
| resourcesCrossplane.limits.cpu                       |`500m`                                        |string | |
| resourcesCrossplane.limits.memory                    |`1Gi`                                         |string | |
| resourcesCrossplane.requests.cpu                     |`250m`                                        |string | |
| resourcesCrossplane.requests.memory                  |`768Mi`                                       |string | |
| resourcesRBACManager.limits.memory                   |`768Mi`                                       |string | |
| resourcesRBACManager.limits.cpu                      |`100m`                                        |string | |
| resourcesRBACManager.requests.cpu                    |`100m `                                       |string | |
| resourcesRBACManager.requests.memory                 |`512Mi`                                       |string | |
| configuration.packages                               |                                            |array  | |
| deploymentStrategy                                   |`RollingUpdate`                               |string | |
| extraEnvVarsCrossplane                               |`'{}'`                                        |object | List of extra environment variables to set in the Crossplane deployment. For example, `extraEnvironmentVars:   sample.key: value1   ANOTHER.KEY: value2` results with `- name: sample_key     value: "value1"   - name: ANOTHER_KEY     value: "value2"` |
| registryCaBundleConfig                               |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| billing.awsMarketplace.iamRoleARN                    |`arn:aws:iam::ACCOUNT-ID>:role/ROLE-NAME`   |string | |
| billing.awsMarketplace.enabled                       |`false`                                       |boolean | |
| image.pullPolicy                                     |`IfNotPresent`                                |string | |
| image.repository                                     |`upbound/crossplane `                         |string | |
| image.tag                                            |`v1.11.0-up.1`                                |string | |
| packageCache.configMap                               |`""`                                          |string | |
| packageCache.medium                                  |`""`                                          |string | |
| packageCache.pvc                                     |`""`                                          |string | |
| packageCache.sizeLimit                               |`5Mi`                                         |string | |
| securityContextRBACManager.allowPrivilegeEscalation  |`false`                                       |boolean | |
| securityContextRBACManager.readOnlyRootFilesystem    |`true`                                        |boolean | |
| securityContextRBACManager.runAsGroup                |`65532`                                       |integer | |
| securityContextRBACManager.runAsUser                 |`65532`                                       |integer | |
| rbacManager.managementPolicy                         |`Basic`                                       |string | |
| rbacManager.nodeSelector                             |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| rbacManager.affinity                                 |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| rbacManager.args                                     |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| rbacManager.deploy                                   |`true`                                        |boolean | |
| rbacManager.leaderElection                           |`true`                                        |boolean | |
| rbacManager.replicas                                 |`1`                                           |integer | |
| rbacManager.skipAggregatedClusterRoles               |`true`                                        |boolean | |
| rbacManager.tolerations                              |                                            |array   | |
| customAnnotations                                    |`'{}'`                                        |object  | Custom annotations to add to the Crossplane deployment and pod. |
| customLabels                                         |`'{}'`                                        |object  | Custom labels to add into metadata. |
| leaderElection                                       |`true`                                        |boolean | |
| nodeSelector                                         |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| podSecurityContextCrossplane                         |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| webhooks.enabled                                     |`false`                                       |boolean | |
| args                                                 |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| podSecurityContextRBACManager                        |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| provider.packages                                    |                                            |array  | |
| tolerations                                          |                                            |array  | |
| upbound.controlPlane.permission                      |`edit`                                        |string | |
| affinity                                             |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| extraEnvVarsRBACManager                              |`'{}'`                                        |object | List of extra environment variables to set in the Crossplane RBAC manager deployment. For example, `extraEnvironmentVars:   sample.key: value1   ANOTHER.KEY: value2` results with `- name: sample_key     value: "value1"   - name: ANOTHER_KEY value: "value2"` |
| nameOverride                                         |`crossplane`                                  |string | |
| priorityClassName                                    |`""`                                          |string | |

Commit message:

STK, Crossplane, Bitnami updates for TAP 1.6

crossplane/reference/package-values.hbs.md, after:

# Package values for Crossplane

This topic lists the keys and values you can use to configure the behavior of the Crossplane package.
Configuration is split between configuration specific to Crossplane in Tanzu Application Platform
and configuration of the Upbound Universal Crossplane (UXP) Helm Chart.

If you are applying configuration to Tanzu Application Platform through the use of profiles and the `tap-values.yaml`,
all configuration must exist under the `crossplane` top-level key.

For example:

```yaml
crossplane:
  replicas: 3
```

## <a id="tap-specific"></a> Tanzu Application Platform configuration

The following table lists configuration specific to Crossplane in Tanzu Application Platform.

| KEY                                                  |DEFAULT                                     |TYPE    | DESCRIPTION |
|------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|--------|-------------|
| kubernetes_version                                   |`""`                                        |string  | Optional: The Kubernetes version. Valid values are `''` or take the form `'1.25.0'` |
| kubernetes_distribution                              |`""`                                        |string  | Optional: The Kubernetes distribution. Valid values are `''` or `'openshift'` |
| orphan_resources                                     |`true`                                      |boolean | Optional: Whether or not to orphan all Crossplane CRDs, providers, and managed resources when the package is being uninstalled. |
| adopt_resources                                      |`false`                                     |boolean | Optional: Whether or not to adopt pre-existing Crossplane CRDs and resources when the package is being installed. |

## <a id="crossplane"></a> Standard Crossplane configuration

The following table lists configuration for the UXP Helm Chart.

| KEY                                                  |DEFAULT                                       |TYPE    | DESCRIPTION |
|------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------|--------|-------------|
| replicas                                             |`1`                                           |integer | |
| serviceAccount.customAnnotations                     |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| bootstrapper.resources                               |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| bootstrapper.config.args                             |                                            |array | |
| bootstrapper.config.debugMode                        |`false`                                       |boolean | |
| bootstrapper.config.envVars                          |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| bootstrapper.image.pullPolicy                        |`IfNotPresent`                                |string | |
| bootstrapper.image.repository                        |`xpkg.upbound.io/upbound/uxp-bootstrapper`    |string | |
| bootstrapper.image.tag                               |`v1.11.0-up.1 `                               |string | |
| maxReconcileRate                                     |`""`                                          |string  | How frequently Crossplane reconciles its resources in seconds.|
| metrics.enabled                                      |`false`                                       |boolean | |
| securityContextCrossplane.allowPrivilegeEscalation   |`false`                                       |boolean | |
| securityContextCrossplane.readOnlyRootFilesystem     |`true`                                        |boolean | |
| securityContextCrossplane.runAsGroup                 |`65532`                                       |integer | |
| securityContextCrossplane.runAsUser                  |`65532`                                       |integer | |
| xfn.securityContext.allowPrivilegeEscalation         |`false`                                       |boolean | |
| xfn.securityContext.capabilities.add                 |                                            |array   | |
| xfn.securityContext.readOnlyRootFilesystem           |`true`                                        |boolean | |
| xfn.securityContext.runAsGroup                       |`65532`                                       |integer | |
| xfn.securityContext.runAsUser                        |`65532`                                       |integer | |
| xfn.securityContext.seccompProfile.type              |`Unconfined`                                  |string | |
| xfn.args                                             |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| xfn.cache.configMap                                  |`""`                                          |string | |
| xfn.cache.medium                                     |`""`                                          |string | |
| xfn.cache.pvc                                        |`""`                                          |string | |
| xfn.cache.sizeLimit                                  |`1Gi`                                         |string | |
| xfn.enabled                                          |`false`                                       |boolean | |
| xfn.extraEnvVars                                     |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| xfn.image.pullPolicy                                 |`IfNotPresent`                                |string | |
| xfn.image.repository                                 |`crossplane/xfn`                              |string | |
| xfn.image.tag                                        |`v1.11.0-up.1`                                |string | |
| xfn.resources.requests.cpu                           |`1000m`                                       |string | |
| xfn.resources.requests.memory                        |`1Gi`                                         |string | |
| xfn.resources.limits.memory                          |`2Gi`                                         |string | |
| xfn.resources.limits.cpu                             |`2000m`                                       |string | |
| resourcesCrossplane.limits.cpu                       |`500m`                                        |string | |
| resourcesCrossplane.limits.memory                    |`1Gi`                                         |string | |
| resourcesCrossplane.requests.cpu                     |`250m`                                        |string | |
| resourcesCrossplane.requests.memory                  |`768Mi`                                       |string | |
| resourcesRBACManager.limits.memory                   |`768Mi`                                       |string | |
| resourcesRBACManager.limits.cpu                      |`100m`                                        |string | |
| resourcesRBACManager.requests.cpu                    |`100m `                                       |string | |
| resourcesRBACManager.requests.memory                 |`512Mi`                                       |string | |
| configuration.packages                               |                                            |array  | |
| deploymentStrategy                                   |`RollingUpdate`                               |string | |
| extraEnvVarsCrossplane                               |`'{}'`                                        |object | List of extra environment variables to set in the Crossplane deployment. For example, `extraEnvironmentVars:   sample.key: value1   ANOTHER.KEY: value2` results with `- name: sample_key     value: "value1"   - name: ANOTHER_KEY     value: "value2"` |
| registryCaBundleConfig                               |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| billing.awsMarketplace.iamRoleARN                    |`arn:aws:iam::ACCOUNT-ID>:role/ROLE-NAME`   |string | |
| billing.awsMarketplace.enabled                       |`false`                                       |boolean | |
| image.pullPolicy                                     |`IfNotPresent`                                |string | |
| image.repository                                     |`upbound/crossplane `                         |string | |
| image.tag                                            |`v1.11.0-up.1`                                |string | |
| packageCache.configMap                               |`""`                                          |string | |
| packageCache.medium                                  |`""`                                          |string | |
| packageCache.pvc                                     |`""`                                          |string | |
| packageCache.sizeLimit                               |`5Mi`                                         |string | |
| securityContextRBACManager.allowPrivilegeEscalation  |`false`                                       |boolean | |
| securityContextRBACManager.readOnlyRootFilesystem    |`true`                                        |boolean | |
| securityContextRBACManager.runAsGroup                |`65532`                                       |integer | |
| securityContextRBACManager.runAsUser                 |`65532`                                       |integer | |
| rbacManager.managementPolicy                         |`Basic`                                       |string | |
| rbacManager.nodeSelector                             |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| rbacManager.affinity                                 |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| rbacManager.args                                     |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| rbacManager.deploy                                   |`true`                                        |boolean | |
| rbacManager.leaderElection                           |`true`                                        |boolean | |
| rbacManager.replicas                                 |`1`                                           |integer | |
| rbacManager.skipAggregatedClusterRoles               |`true`                                        |boolean | |
| rbacManager.tolerations                              |                                            |array   | |
| customAnnotations                                    |`'{}'`                                        |object  | Custom annotations to add to the Crossplane deployment and pod. |
| customLabels                                         |`'{}'`                                        |object  | Custom labels to add into metadata. |
| leaderElection                                       |`true`                                        |boolean | |
| nodeSelector                                         |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| podSecurityContextCrossplane                         |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| webhooks.enabled                                     |`false`                                       |boolean | |
| args                                                 |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| podSecurityContextRBACManager                        |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| provider.packages                                    |                                            |array  | |
| tolerations                                          |                                            |array  | |
| upbound.controlPlane.permission                      |`edit`                                        |string | |
| affinity                                             |`'{}'`                                        |object | |
| extraEnvVarsRBACManager                              |`'{}'`                                        |object | List of extra environment variables to set in the Crossplane RBAC manager deployment. For example, `extraEnvironmentVars:   sample.key: value1   ANOTHER.KEY: value2` results with `- name: sample_key     value: "value1"   - name: ANOTHER_KEY value: "value2"` |
| nameOverride                                         |`crossplane`                                  |string | |
| priorityClassName                                    |`""`                                          |string | |
