partials/scst-scan/_offline-airgap.hbs.md, before:

The `grype` CLI attempts to perform two over the Internet calls:

- One to verify for later versions of the CLI.
- One to update the vulnerability database before scanning.

For the `grype` CLI to function in an offline or air-gapped environment, the
vulnerability database must be hosted within the environment. You must configure
the `grype` CLI with the internal URL.

The `grype` CLI accepts environment variables to satisfy these needs.

For information about setting up an offline vulnerability database, see the [Anchore Grype README](https://github.com/anchore/grype#offline-and-air-gapped-environments) in GitHub.

## <a id="enable-grype-airgap"></a> To enable Grype in offline air-gapped environments

1. Add the following to your `tap-values.yaml` file:

    ```yaml
    grype:
      db:
        dbUpdateUrl: INTERNAL-VULN-DB-URL
    ```

    Where `INTERNAL-VULN-DB-URL` is the URL that points to the internal file server.

2. Update Tanzu Application Platform:

    ```console
    tanzu package installed update tap -f tap-values.yaml -n tap-install
    ```

> **Note** If you are using the Namespace Provisioner to provision a new developer namespace and want to apply a package overlay for Grype, you must import the overlay `Secret`s. See [Import overlay secrets](/docs-tap/namespace-provisioner/customize-installation.hbs.md).

## <a id="troubleshooting"></a> Troubleshooting

### ERROR failed to fetch latest cli version

> **Note** This message is a warning and the Grype scan still runs with this message.

The Grype CLI checks for later versions of the CLI by contacting the anchore endpoint over the Internet.

```console
ERROR failed to fetch latest version: Get "https://toolbox-data.anchore.io/grype/releases/latest/VERSION": dial tcp: lookup toolbox-data.anchore.io on [::1]:53: read udp [::1]:65010->[::1]:53: read: connection refused
```

#### Solution

To deactivate this check, set the environment variable `GRYPE_CHECK_FOR_APP_UPDATE` to `false` by using a package overlay with the following steps:

1. Create a secret that contains the ytt overlay to add the Grype environment variable to the ScanTemplates.

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Secret
    metadata:
      name: grype-airgap-deactivate-cli-check-overlay
      namespace: tap-install #! namespace where tap is installed
    stringData:
      patch.yaml: |
        #@ load("@ytt:overlay", "overlay")

        #@overlay/match by=overlay.subset({"kind":"ScanTemplate"}),expects="1+"
        ---
        spec:
          template:
            initContainers:
              #@overlay/match by=overlay.subset({"name": "scan-plugin"}), expects="1+"
              - name: scan-plugin
                #@overlay/match missing_ok=True
                env:
                  #@overlay/append
                  - name: GRYPE_CHECK_FOR_APP_UPDATE
                    value: "false"
    ```

2. Configure `tap-values.yaml` to use `package_overlays`. Add the following to your `tap-values.yaml` file:

    ```yaml
    package_overlays:
      - name: "grype"
        secrets:
            - name: "grype-airgap-deactivate-cli-check-overlay"
    ```

3. Update Tanzu Application Platform:

    ```console
    tanzu package installed update tap -f tap-values.yaml -n tap-install
    ```

### Database is too old

```console
1 error occurred:
  * db could not be loaded: the vulnerability database was built N days/weeks ago (max allowed age is 5 days)
```

Grype needs up-to-date vulnerability information to provide accurate matches. By
default, it fails to run if the local database was not built in the last 5 days.

#### Solution

Two options to resolve this:

1. Stale databases weaken your security posture. VMware recommends updating the database daily as the first recommended solution.

2. If updating the database daily is not an option, the data staleness check is configurable by using the environment variable
`GRYPE_DB_MAX_ALLOWED_BUILT_AGE` and is addressed using a package overlay with
the following steps:

    1. Create a secret that contains the ytt overlay to add the Grype environment variable to the ScanTemplates.

        ```yaml
        apiVersion: v1
        kind: Secret
        metadata:
          name: grype-airgap-override-stale-db-overlay
          namespace: tap-install #! namespace where tap is installed
        stringData:
          patch.yaml: |
            #@ load("@ytt:overlay", "overlay")

            #@overlay/match by=overlay.subset({"kind":"ScanTemplate"}),expects="1+"
            ---
            spec:
              template:
                initContainers:
                  #@overlay/match by=overlay.subset({"name": "scan-plugin"}), expects="1+"
                  - name: scan-plugin
                    #@overlay/match missing_ok=True
                    env:
                      #@overlay/append
                      - name: GRYPE_DB_MAX_ALLOWED_BUILT_AGE #! see note on best practices
                        value: "120h"
        ```

        > **Note** The default maximum allowed built age of Grype's vulnerability
        > database is 5 days. This means that scanning with a 6 day old database
        > causes the scan to fail. You can use the
        > `GRYPE_DB_MAX_ALLOWED_BUILT_AGE` parameter to override the default in
        > accordance with your security posture.

    1. Configure `tap-values.yaml` to use `package_overlays`. Add the following to your `tap-values.yaml` file:

        ```yaml
        package_overlays:
          - name: "grype"
            secrets:
                - name: "grype-airgap-override-stale-db-overlay"
        ```

    1. Update Tanzu Application Platform:

        ```console
        tanzu package installed update tap -f tap-values.yaml -n tap-install
        ```

### Vulnerability database is invalid

```console
scan-pod[scan-plugin]  1 error occurred:
scan-pod[scan-plugin]  * failed to load vulnerability db: vulnerability database is invalid (run db update to correct): database metadata not found: /.cache/grype/db/5
```

#### Solution

Examine the `listing.json` file you created. This matches the format of the listing file. The listing file is located at Anchore Grype's public endpoint. See the [Grype README.md](https://github.com/anchore/grype#how-database-updates-work) in GitHub.

An example `listing.json`:

```console
{
  "available": {
    "5": [
      {
        "built": "2023-03-28T01:29:38Z",
        "version": 5,
        "url": "https://toolbox-data.anchore.io/grype/databases/vulnerability-db_v5_2023-03-28T01:29:38Z_e49d318c32a6113eed07.tar.gz",
        "checksum": "sha256:408ce2932f04dee929a5df524e92494f2d635c6b19e30ff9f0a50425b1fc29a1"
      },
      .....
    ]
  }
}
```

Where:

- `5` refers to the Grype's vulnerability database schema.
- `built` is the build timestamp in the format `yyyy-MM-ddTHH:mm:ssZ`.
- `url` is the download URL for the tarball containing the database. This points at your internal endpoint. The tarball contains the following files:
  - ` vulnerability.db` is an SQLite file that is Grype's vulnerability database. Each time the data shape of the vulnerability database changes, a new schema is created. Different Grype versions require specific database schema versions. For example, Grype `v0.54.0` requires database schema version v5.
  - `metadata.json` file
- `checksum` is the SHA used to verify the database's integrity.

Verify these possible reasons why the vulnerability database is not valid:

1. The database schema is invalid. Confirm that the required database schema for
   the installed Grype version is used. Confirm that the top level version key
   matches the nested `version`. For example, the top level version `1` in the
   following snippet does not match the nested `version: 5`.

    ```json
    {
      "available": {
        "1": [{
               "built": "2023-02-08T08_17_20Z",
               "version": 5,
               "url": "https://INTERNAL-ENDPOINT/releases/vulnerability-db_v5_2023-02-08T08_17_20Z_6ef73016d160043c630f.tar.gz",
               "checksum": "sha256:aab8d369933c845878ef1b53bb5c26ee49b91ddc5cd87c9eb57ffb203a88a72f"
        }]
      }
    }
    ```

    As stale databases weaken your security posture, VMware recommends using the
    newest entry of the relevant schema version in the `listing.json` file. See
    Anchore’s [grype-db](https://github.com/anchore/grype-db) in GitHub.

2. The `built` parameters in the `listing.json` file are incorrectly formatted. The proper format is `yyyy-MM-ddTHH:mm:ssZ`.

3. The `url` that you modified to point at an internal endpoint is not reachable
   from within the cluster. For information about verifying connectivity, see
   [Debug Grype database in a cluster](#debug-grype-database-in-a-cluster).

#### Debug Grype database in a cluster

1. Describe the failed source scan or image scan to verify the name of the ScanTemplate being used.

    - For `sourcescan`, run:

        ```console
        kubectl describe sourcescan SCAN-NAME -n DEV-NAMESPACE
        ```

    - For `imagescan`, run:

        ```console
        kubectl describe imagescan SCAN-NAME -n DEV-NAMESPACE
        ```

    Where `SCAN-NAME` is the name of the source or image scan that failed.

2. Edit the ScanTemplate's `scan-plugin` container to include a "sleep" entrypoint which allows you to troubleshoot inside the container:

    ```yaml
    - name: scan-plugin
      volumeMounts:
        ...
      image: #@ data.values.scanner.image
      imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
      env:
        ...
      command: ["/bin/bash"]
      args:
      - "sleep 1800" # insert 30 min sleep here
    ```

3. Re-run the scan.

4. Get the name of the `scan-plugin` pod.

    ```console
    kubectl get pods -n DEV-NAMESPACE
    ```

5. Get a shell to the container. See the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug/debug-application/get-shell-running-container/):

    ```console
    kubectl exec --stdin --tty SCAN-PLUGIN-POD -c step-scan-plugin -- /bin/bash
    ```

    Where `SCAN-PLUGIN-POD` is the name of the `scan-plugin` pod.

6. Inside the container, run Grype CLI commands to report database status and verify connectivity
   from cluster to mirror.
   See the [Grype documentation](https://github.com/anchore/grype#cli-commands-for-database-management) in GitHub.

   - Report current status of Grype's database (location, build date, and checksum):

      ```console
      grype db status
      ```

7. Ensure that the built parameters in the listing.json has timestamps in this proper format `yyyy-MM-ddTHH:mm:ssZ`.

### Grype package overlays are not applied to scantemplates created by Namespace Provisioner

If you used the Namespace Provisioner to provision a new developer namespace and
want to apply a package overlay for Grype, see [Import overlay
secrets](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.5/tap/namespace-provisioner-customize-installation.html).

Commit message:

Add grype troubleshooting commands to make it easier to validate the listing.json

partials/scst-scan/_offline-airgap.hbs.md, after:

The `grype` CLI attempts to perform two over the Internet calls:

- One to verify for later versions of the CLI.
- One to update the vulnerability database before scanning.

For the `grype` CLI to function in an offline or air-gapped environment, the
vulnerability database must be hosted within the environment. You must configure
the `grype` CLI with the internal URL.

The `grype` CLI accepts environment variables to satisfy these needs.

For information about setting up an offline vulnerability database, see the [Anchore Grype README](https://github.com/anchore/grype#offline-and-air-gapped-environments) in GitHub.

## <a id="enable-grype-airgap"></a> To enable Grype in offline air-gapped environments

1. Add the following to your `tap-values.yaml` file:

    ```yaml
    grype:
      db:
        dbUpdateUrl: INTERNAL-VULN-DB-URL
    ```

    Where `INTERNAL-VULN-DB-URL` is the URL that points to the internal file server.

2. Update Tanzu Application Platform:

    ```console
    tanzu package installed update tap -f tap-values.yaml -n tap-install
    ```

> **Note** If you are using the Namespace Provisioner to provision a new developer namespace and want to apply a package overlay for Grype, you must import the overlay `Secret`s. See [Import overlay secrets](/docs-tap/namespace-provisioner/customize-installation.hbs.md).

## <a id="troubleshooting"></a> Troubleshooting

### ERROR failed to fetch latest cli version

> **Note** This message is a warning and the Grype scan still runs with this message.

The Grype CLI checks for later versions of the CLI by contacting the anchore endpoint over the Internet.

```console
ERROR failed to fetch latest version: Get "https://toolbox-data.anchore.io/grype/releases/latest/VERSION": dial tcp: lookup toolbox-data.anchore.io on [::1]:53: read udp [::1]:65010->[::1]:53: read: connection refused
```

#### Solution

To deactivate this check, set the environment variable `GRYPE_CHECK_FOR_APP_UPDATE` to `false` by using a package overlay with the following steps:

1. Create a secret that contains the ytt overlay to add the Grype environment variable to the ScanTemplates.

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Secret
    metadata:
      name: grype-airgap-deactivate-cli-check-overlay
      namespace: tap-install #! namespace where tap is installed
    stringData:
      patch.yaml: |
        #@ load("@ytt:overlay", "overlay")

        #@overlay/match by=overlay.subset({"kind":"ScanTemplate"}),expects="1+"
        ---
        spec:
          template:
            initContainers:
              #@overlay/match by=overlay.subset({"name": "scan-plugin"}), expects="1+"
              - name: scan-plugin
                #@overlay/match missing_ok=True
                env:
                  #@overlay/append
                  - name: GRYPE_CHECK_FOR_APP_UPDATE
                    value: "false"
    ```

2. Configure `tap-values.yaml` to use `package_overlays`. Add the following to your `tap-values.yaml` file:

    ```yaml
    package_overlays:
      - name: "grype"
        secrets:
            - name: "grype-airgap-deactivate-cli-check-overlay"
    ```

3. Update Tanzu Application Platform:

    ```console
    tanzu package installed update tap -f tap-values.yaml -n tap-install
    ```

### Database is too old

```console
1 error occurred:
  * db could not be loaded: the vulnerability database was built N days/weeks ago (max allowed age is 5 days)
```

Grype needs up-to-date vulnerability information to provide accurate matches. By
default, it fails to run if the local database was not built in the last 5 days.

#### Solution

Two options to resolve this:

1. Stale databases weaken your security posture. VMware recommends updating the database daily as the first recommended solution.

2. If updating the database daily is not an option, the data staleness check is configurable by using the environment variable
`GRYPE_DB_MAX_ALLOWED_BUILT_AGE` and is addressed using a package overlay with
the following steps:

    1. Create a secret that contains the ytt overlay to add the Grype environment variable to the ScanTemplates.

        ```yaml
        apiVersion: v1
        kind: Secret
        metadata:
          name: grype-airgap-override-stale-db-overlay
          namespace: tap-install #! namespace where tap is installed
        stringData:
          patch.yaml: |
            #@ load("@ytt:overlay", "overlay")

            #@overlay/match by=overlay.subset({"kind":"ScanTemplate"}),expects="1+"
            ---
            spec:
              template:
                initContainers:
                  #@overlay/match by=overlay.subset({"name": "scan-plugin"}), expects="1+"
                  - name: scan-plugin
                    #@overlay/match missing_ok=True
                    env:
                      #@overlay/append
                      - name: GRYPE_DB_MAX_ALLOWED_BUILT_AGE #! see note on best practices
                        value: "120h"
        ```

        > **Note** The default maximum allowed built age of Grype's vulnerability
        > database is 5 days. This means that scanning with a 6 day old database
        > causes the scan to fail. You can use the
        > `GRYPE_DB_MAX_ALLOWED_BUILT_AGE` parameter to override the default in
        > accordance with your security posture.

    1. Configure `tap-values.yaml` to use `package_overlays`. Add the following to your `tap-values.yaml` file:

        ```yaml
        package_overlays:
          - name: "grype"
            secrets:
                - name: "grype-airgap-override-stale-db-overlay"
        ```

    1. Update Tanzu Application Platform:

        ```console
        tanzu package installed update tap -f tap-values.yaml -n tap-install
        ```

### Vulnerability database is invalid

```console
scan-pod[scan-plugin]  1 error occurred:
scan-pod[scan-plugin]  * failed to load vulnerability db: vulnerability database is invalid (run db update to correct): database metadata not found: /.cache/grype/db/5
```

#### Solution

Examine the `listing.json` file you created. This matches the format of the listing file. The listing file is located at Anchore Grype's public endpoint. See the [Grype README.md](https://github.com/anchore/grype#how-database-updates-work) in GitHub.

An example `listing.json`:

```console
{
  "available": {
    "5": [
      {
        "built": "2023-03-28T01:29:38Z",
        "version": 5,
        "url": "https://toolbox-data.anchore.io/grype/databases/vulnerability-db_v5_2023-03-28T01:29:38Z_e49d318c32a6113eed07.tar.gz",
        "checksum": "sha256:408ce2932f04dee929a5df524e92494f2d635c6b19e30ff9f0a50425b1fc29a1"
      },
      .....
    ]
  }
}
```

Where:

- `5` refers to the Grype's vulnerability database schema.
- `built` is the build timestamp in the format `yyyy-MM-ddTHH:mm:ssZ`.
- `url` is the download URL for the tarball containing the database. This points at your internal endpoint. The tarball contains the following files:
  - ` vulnerability.db` is an SQLite file that is Grype's vulnerability database. Each time the data shape of the vulnerability database changes, a new schema is created. Different Grype versions require specific database schema versions. For example, Grype `v0.54.0` requires database schema version v5.
  - `metadata.json` file
- `checksum` is the SHA used to verify the database's integrity.

Verify these possible reasons why the vulnerability database is not valid:

1. The database schema is invalid. Confirm that the required database schema for
   the installed Grype version is used. Confirm that the top level version key
   matches the nested `version`. For example, the top level version `1` in the
   following snippet does not match the nested `version: 5`.

    ```json
    {
      "available": {
        "1": [{
               "built": "2023-02-08T08_17_20Z",
               "version": 5,
               "url": "https://INTERNAL-ENDPOINT/releases/vulnerability-db_v5_2023-02-08T08_17_20Z_6ef73016d160043c630f.tar.gz",
               "checksum": "sha256:aab8d369933c845878ef1b53bb5c26ee49b91ddc5cd87c9eb57ffb203a88a72f"
        }]
      }
    }
    ```

    As stale databases weaken your security posture, VMware recommends using the
    newest entry of the relevant schema version in the `listing.json` file. See
    Anchore’s [grype-db](https://github.com/anchore/grype-db) in GitHub.

2. The `built` parameters in the `listing.json` file are incorrectly formatted. The proper format is `yyyy-MM-ddTHH:mm:ssZ`.

3. The `url` that you modified to point at an internal endpoint is not reachable
   from within the cluster. For information about verifying connectivity, see
   [Debug Grype database in a cluster](#debug-grype-database-in-a-cluster).
4. Run the following to check for syntax errors in the listing.json:
    ```console
    grype db check
    ```
5. Run the following to validate the configured listing.json:
    ```console
    grype db list -o raw
    ```

#### Debug Grype database in a cluster

1. Describe the failed source scan or image scan to verify the name of the ScanTemplate being used.

    - For `sourcescan`, run:

        ```console
        kubectl describe sourcescan SCAN-NAME -n DEV-NAMESPACE
        ```

    - For `imagescan`, run:

        ```console
        kubectl describe imagescan SCAN-NAME -n DEV-NAMESPACE
        ```

    Where `SCAN-NAME` is the name of the source or image scan that failed.

2. Edit the ScanTemplate's `scan-plugin` container to include a "sleep" entrypoint which allows you to troubleshoot inside the container:

    ```yaml
    - name: scan-plugin
      volumeMounts:
        ...
      image: #@ data.values.scanner.image
      imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
      env:
        ...
      command: ["/bin/bash"]
      args:
      - "sleep 1800" # insert 30 min sleep here
    ```

3. Re-run the scan.

4. Get the name of the `scan-plugin` pod.

    ```console
    kubectl get pods -n DEV-NAMESPACE
    ```

5. Get a shell to the container. See the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug/debug-application/get-shell-running-container/):

    ```console
    kubectl exec --stdin --tty SCAN-PLUGIN-POD -c step-scan-plugin -- /bin/bash
    ```

    Where `SCAN-PLUGIN-POD` is the name of the `scan-plugin` pod.

6. Inside the container, run Grype CLI commands to report database status and verify connectivity
   from cluster to mirror.
   See the [Grype documentation](https://github.com/anchore/grype#cli-commands-for-database-management) in GitHub.

   - Report current status of Grype's database (location, build date, and checksum):

      ```console
      grype db status
      ```

7. Ensure that the built parameters in the listing.json has timestamps in this proper format `yyyy-MM-ddTHH:mm:ssZ`.

### Grype package overlays are not applied to scantemplates created by Namespace Provisioner

If you used the Namespace Provisioner to provision a new developer namespace and
want to apply a package overlay for Grype, see [Import overlay
secrets](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.5/tap/namespace-provisioner-customize-installation.html).
