security-and-compliance/harden-tap.hbs.md, before:

# Harden Tanzu Application Platform

## Objective

This document aims to provide Tanzu Application Platform installation and configuration guidance for
users looking to achieve an
[800-53](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-53r5.pdf) based Authority
to Operate. This is not a comprehensive security guide, but rather, an abbreviated TAP readiness
outline with considerations for hardening TAP with 800-53 controls as a guide.

Configuring your TAP installation to this standard does not guarantee approval given there are
multiple organizational requirements and deviations that a platform team may make during
installation and configuration.

## Scope

The document will focus on the hardening on the Tanzu Application Platform.  This platform is
deployed to Kubernetes and as such, relies on the Kubernetes platform being hardened in a shared
responsibility model with the Tanzu Application Platform.  This guide will provide instruction on
Kubernetes based hardening configurations that are required for the Tanzu Application Platform,
however, it should not be viewed as a hardening guide for Kubernetes as well.

For hardening Kubernetes, refer to Kubernetes specific hardening guides such as:

- [NSA/CISA Kubernetes Hardening Guide](https://media.defense.gov/2022/Aug/29/2003066362/-1/-1/0/CTR_KUBERNETES_HARDENING_GUIDANCE_1.2_20220829.PDF):
  Published in Aug 2022, this is a prescriptive document that covers many areas related to
  Kubernetes security.
- [NIST Kubernetes STIG Checklist](https://ncp.nist.gov/checklist/996): Published in April 2021,
  provides a prescriptive a list of technical requirements for securing a basic Kubernetes platform.
- [CIS Kubernetes Benchmark](https://www.cisecurity.org/benchmark/kubernetes/): Widely used as a
  secure configuration guide, last updated in June 2021.

## Identity and Access Management

In order to provide an audit trail of what a user does in a system, it is important to configure the
Tanzu Application Platform so that the identity for a given user is known. When installing and
configuring the Tanzu Application Platform, there are several areas where user identity
configuration should be considered. Currently the Tanzu Application Platform has three different
areas where users have identities.

1. Tanzu Application Platform GUI
2. Tanzu Application Platform GUI Authentication to Remote Clusters
3. The Kubernetes cluster that the Tanzu Application Platform components are installed on

It is recommended to use the same identity provider for each of these components so that a common
identity is shared across the entire Tanzu Application Platform. To facilitate this, components are
able to use common OIDC providers.  Below is the configuration for each component:

### Tanzu Application Platform GUI

The Tanzu Application Platform GUI is based on the Backstage open source project and has a variety
of OIDC providers that you are able to configure as an identity provider.

In order to configure authentication for the Tanzu Application Platform GUI, VMware suggests the
following:

1. Enable user authentication using one of the
   [supported providers](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.5/tap/tap-gui-auth.html).
   Note that due to the limitations with the backstage authentication implementation, simply having
   authentication does [not guarantee full end-to-end security](https://backstage.io/docs/auth/#sign-in-configuration)
   as Backstage doesn’t currently support per-API authentication.
   VMware recommends implementing additional security either via an inbound proxy or via networking
   (firewall / VPN).
2. It is recommended to disable guest access via the tap_gui section in the tap-values.yaml.

   ```yaml
   tap_gui:
     app_config:
       auth:
         allowGuestAccess: false
   ```

### Tanzu Application Platform GUI to Remote Kubernetes Cluster Authentication

Several plugins within the Tanzu Application Platform GUI, such as the Runtime Resource Viewer,
Supply Chain Visualization, and Security Analyst GUI require authentication to remote Kubernetes
clusters to query Kubernetes resources.

To do so, the plugins must authenticate to the Kubernetes API on remote clusters.
This authentication can be configured in two ways: a shared Kubernetes service account that all users
will use to authenticate to remote clusters, and by setting up an authentication provider for the
remote cluster.  As best security practice, VMware recommends setting up a remote authentication
provider for the Kubernetes cluster.

Full documentation for this can be found
[here]([https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.5/tap/tap-gui-auth.html](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.5/tap/tap-gui-cluster-view-setup.html#update-tap-gui).

As best practice, the users on the Kubernetes clusters that are used for remote authentication
should be assigned to Kubernetes roles that limit access in a least privilege model.  More
information about Kubernetes roles provider out of box can be found in the next section.

### Kubernetes Cluster Authentication and Authorization

Although not a Tanzu Application Platform configuration, VMware recommends enabling authentication
to the Kubernetes clusters where the Tanzu Application Platform components are installed, using the
same identity provider that other components are using.

While there are many options on how to enable OIDC providers for authentication with the Kubernetes
API, VMware supports the [Pinniped project](https://pinniped.dev/) and has
[documented](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.5/tap/authn-authz-integrating-identity.html)
the process of setting it up as part of the Tanzu Application Platform documentation.

By configuring this to use the same identify provider as the Tanzu Application Platform GUI, users
can have a common identity across the Kubernetes clusters and the Tanzu Application Platform GUI.
Because the Tanzu CLI is making Kubernetes API calls, this configuration will also be enabled for
the Tanzu CLI.

Using Pinniped will provide authentication for Kubernetes clusters but still requires the users to
be bound to Kubernetes roles.  To provide a starting point, the Tanzu Application Platform provides
six Kubernetes Roles as part of the installation that users can be bound to.  For more information
around the roles used for authorization, refer to the
[authentication and authorization documentation](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.5/tap/authn-authz-overview.html).

## Cryptographic Protections

Encryption of data is leveraged to prevent unauthorized access to data.  With the Tanzu Application
Platform, this protection focuses on the two primary states of data that should be encrypted:

1. Encryption of Data in Transit
2. Encryption of Data at Rest

### Encryption of Data in Transit

#### Internal TLS Configuration

Communication between services that originates and terminates within the cluster is referred to as
internal communication. The Tanzu Application Platform is in the process of enabling TLS on
internal communication for components.

For those users who have a requirement to have all internal communication encrypted, the Tanzu
Application Platform supports enabling the Tanzu Service Mesh, which will provide mutual TLS between
components.

For more information, please see the
[guide](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.5/tap/integrations-tsm-tap-integration.html)
for setting up Tanzu Service Mesh with the Tanzu Application Platform.

#### External TLS Configuration

Based upon OSS doc:
[https://projectcontour.io/docs/v1.22.1/configuration/#tls-configuration](https://projectcontour.io/docs/v1.22.1/configuration/#tls-configuration)

TLS enables encryption of communication from end-users to the cluster. Since Contour is the edge
gateway for all the traffic ingressing into the cluster, it is an easy spot to set up TLS and ensure
that all communications between users and the cluster are encrypted.

It also allows cluster owners to satisfy compliance requirements like NIST 800-53 Control
[SC-8](https://csf.tools/reference/nist-sp-800-53/r4/sc/sc-8/) where it is required to protect the
confidentiality of transmitted information.

Moreover, it may be required that certain cipher suites and/or TLS versions are used when encrypting
communications.[NIST 800-52r2](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-52r2.pdf)
requires all government-only applications shall use TLS 1.2 and should be configured to use TLS 1.3
as well.

##### Configuring TLS for Contour

In order to configure Contour to use TLS according to the NIST 800-52r2 requirements you need to
create a new section in your `tap-values.yaml` file like:

```yaml
...
contour:
  * existing stuff, probably already there if you're following tap docs
  envoy:
    service:
      type: LoadBalancer # This is set by default, but can be overridden by setting a different value.
  * new stuff
  contour:
    configFileContents:
      tls:
        minimum-protocol-version: "1.2"
        cipher-suites:
        - '[ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256|ECDHE-ECDSA-CHACHA20-POLY1305]'
        - '[ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256|ECDHE-RSA-CHACHA20-POLY1305]'
        - 'ECDHE-ECDSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384'
        - 'ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384'
```

After adding this section, apply the tap-values file and that will change the configuration of TLS
to match the requirements.

For more settings in the Contour component, you can reference the
[open source documentation](https://projectcontour.io/docs/v1.22.1/configuration/#tls-configuration).

#### Ingress Certificates

Refer to [ingress certificates](./tls-and-certificates/ingress/about.hbs.md) to
learn how to configure TLS for a TAP installation's ingress endpoints.

### Encryption of Data At Rest

All data should be encrypted at rest.  The Tanzu Application Platform runs on top of the Kubernetes
platform and as such, TAP will verify the default storage class configured on the Kubernetes
cluster. Customers are required to provide a Persistent Volume Provisioner to the Kubernetes
infrastructure that supports encryption if the customers desire to have Encryption of Data at Rest as
an outcome.

- Persistent Volume claim encryption
- Data at rest should be encrypted.

### Ports and Protocols

Ports are used in TCP and UDP protocols for identification of applications. While some applications use well-known port numbers, such as 80 for HTTP, or 443 for HTTPS, some applications use dynamic ports. Open port refers to a port on which a system is accepting communication. An open port does not immediately mean a security issue, but it's important to understand that it can provide a pathway for attackers to the application listening on that port. To help with understanding the traffic flows in the Tanzu Application Platform, a list of TAP ports and protocols is available to existing and future customers upon request. 

Please refer to [TAP Architecture Overview](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.4/tap-reference-architecture/GUID-reference-designs-tap-architecture-planning.html)

## Networking

TAP networking is a shared responsibility with customers to ensure that customer workloads only expose internal-only routes. All traffic should go through Contour and LoadBalancer without utilizing NodePort [services](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/). TAP is supported by [Tanzu Service Mesh](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.5/tap/integrations-tsm-tap-integration.html). It is vital that customers configure proper [affinity rules](https://knative.dev/docs/serving/configuration/feature-flags/#kubernetes-node-affinity) on knative deployed services. For more information, please refer to instructions for [installing TAP in an air-gapped environment](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.5/tap/install-air-gap.html?hWord=N4IghgNiBcIC5gHYC8CuACRBTOB3A9gE4DWIAvkA).


## Key Management

Key management is the foundation of all data security. Data is encrypted and decrypted via the use of encryption keys or secrets that must be safely stored to prevent the loss or compromise of infrastructure, systems, and applications. TAP values are secrets and must be protected to ensure the security and integrity of the platform.

- TAP stores all sensitive values as [Kubernetes Secrets](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/)
- Encryption of secrets at rest are Kubernetes Distribution Dependent.
- If customers desire to store secrets in a Secret Management service (e.g. [Hashicorp Vault](https://www.vaultproject.io),
  [Google Secrets Manager](https://cloud.google.com/secret-manager), [Amazon Secrets Manager](https://aws.amazon.com/secrets-manager/),
  [Microsoft Azure Key Vault](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/key-vault/)) they can make
  use of the [External Secrets Operator](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.5/tap/external-secrets-about-external-secrets-operator.html)
  to automate the lifecycle management (ALPHA).
- 800-53 [Section AC-23](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-53r5.pdf)
  related to safeguarding of sensitive information from exploitation (ex. TAP values)

## Logging

Log files provide an audit trail necessary to monitor activity within infrastructure, identify policy violations, unusual activity, and highlight security incidents. It is vital that logs are captured and retained according to the policies set forth by the organization's security team or governing body. TAP components run as pods on the Kubernetes infrastructure and all components output to standard out, captured as part of the pod logs.

All TAP components follow
[Kubernetes Logging](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/logging/) best practices.
Log aggregation should be implemented following the best practices of the organization log retention
process.

- 800-53 Section [AU-4 Audit Log Storage Capacity](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-53r5.pdf)

## Deployment Architecture

The Tanzu Application Platform provides a [reference architecture](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.4/tap-reference-architecture/GUID-reference-designs-tap-architecture-planning.html) which provides separation of components based on function.  This reference architecture recommends multiple Kubernetes clusters that serve the functions of "iterate","build","view", and "run" for users.  This separation is intended to provide separation of concerns for users, as well as protect the availability and performance of the platform from functions such as building and scanning, that could consume extensive resources from the cluster in a bursty nature.

Commit message:

Provide alternative options for internal communication and rename sections since alternatives are not all TLS based.

security-and-compliance/harden-tap.hbs.md, after:

# Harden Tanzu Application Platform

## Objective

This document aims to provide Tanzu Application Platform installation and configuration guidance for
users looking to achieve an
[800-53](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-53r5.pdf) based Authority
to Operate. This is not a comprehensive security guide, but rather, an abbreviated TAP readiness
outline with considerations for hardening TAP with 800-53 controls as a guide.

Configuring your TAP installation to this standard does not guarantee approval given there are
multiple organizational requirements and deviations that a platform team may make during
installation and configuration.

## Scope

The document will focus on the hardening on the Tanzu Application Platform.  This platform is
deployed to Kubernetes and as such, relies on the Kubernetes platform being hardened in a shared
responsibility model with the Tanzu Application Platform.  This guide will provide instruction on
Kubernetes based hardening configurations that are required for the Tanzu Application Platform,
however, it should not be viewed as a hardening guide for Kubernetes as well.

For hardening Kubernetes, refer to Kubernetes specific hardening guides such as:

- [NSA/CISA Kubernetes Hardening Guide](https://media.defense.gov/2022/Aug/29/2003066362/-1/-1/0/CTR_KUBERNETES_HARDENING_GUIDANCE_1.2_20220829.PDF):
  Published in Aug 2022, this is a prescriptive document that covers many areas related to
  Kubernetes security.
- [NIST Kubernetes STIG Checklist](https://ncp.nist.gov/checklist/996): Published in April 2021,
  provides a prescriptive a list of technical requirements for securing a basic Kubernetes platform.
- [CIS Kubernetes Benchmark](https://www.cisecurity.org/benchmark/kubernetes/): Widely used as a
  secure configuration guide, last updated in June 2021.

## Identity and Access Management

In order to provide an audit trail of what a user does in a system, it is important to configure the
Tanzu Application Platform so that the identity for a given user is known. When installing and
configuring the Tanzu Application Platform, there are several areas where user identity
configuration should be considered. Currently the Tanzu Application Platform has three different
areas where users have identities.

1. Tanzu Application Platform GUI
2. Tanzu Application Platform GUI Authentication to Remote Clusters
3. The Kubernetes cluster that the Tanzu Application Platform components are installed on

It is recommended to use the same identity provider for each of these components so that a common
identity is shared across the entire Tanzu Application Platform. To facilitate this, components are
able to use common OIDC providers.  Below is the configuration for each component:

### Tanzu Application Platform GUI

The Tanzu Application Platform GUI is based on the Backstage open source project and has a variety
of OIDC providers that you are able to configure as an identity provider.

In order to configure authentication for the Tanzu Application Platform GUI, VMware suggests the
following:

1. Enable user authentication using one of the
   [supported providers](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.5/tap/tap-gui-auth.html).
   Note that due to the limitations with the backstage authentication implementation, simply having
   authentication does [not guarantee full end-to-end security](https://backstage.io/docs/auth/#sign-in-configuration)
   as Backstage doesn’t currently support per-API authentication.
   VMware recommends implementing additional security either via an inbound proxy or via networking
   (firewall / VPN).
2. It is recommended to disable guest access via the tap_gui section in the tap-values.yaml.

   ```yaml
   tap_gui:
     app_config:
       auth:
         allowGuestAccess: false
   ```

### Tanzu Application Platform GUI to Remote Kubernetes Cluster Authentication

Several plugins within the Tanzu Application Platform GUI, such as the Runtime Resource Viewer,
Supply Chain Visualization, and Security Analyst GUI require authentication to remote Kubernetes
clusters to query Kubernetes resources.

To do so, the plugins must authenticate to the Kubernetes API on remote clusters.
This authentication can be configured in two ways: a shared Kubernetes service account that all users
will use to authenticate to remote clusters, and by setting up an authentication provider for the
remote cluster.  As best security practice, VMware recommends setting up a remote authentication
provider for the Kubernetes cluster.

Full documentation for this can be found
[here]([https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.5/tap/tap-gui-auth.html](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.5/tap/tap-gui-cluster-view-setup.html#update-tap-gui).

As best practice, the users on the Kubernetes clusters that are used for remote authentication
should be assigned to Kubernetes roles that limit access in a least privilege model.  More
information about Kubernetes roles provider out of box can be found in the next section.

### Kubernetes Cluster Authentication and Authorization

Although not a Tanzu Application Platform configuration, VMware recommends enabling authentication
to the Kubernetes clusters where the Tanzu Application Platform components are installed, using the
same identity provider that other components are using.

While there are many options on how to enable OIDC providers for authentication with the Kubernetes
API, VMware supports the [Pinniped project](https://pinniped.dev/) and has
[documented](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.5/tap/authn-authz-integrating-identity.html)
the process of setting it up as part of the Tanzu Application Platform documentation.

By configuring this to use the same identify provider as the Tanzu Application Platform GUI, users
can have a common identity across the Kubernetes clusters and the Tanzu Application Platform GUI.
Because the Tanzu CLI is making Kubernetes API calls, this configuration will also be enabled for
the Tanzu CLI.

Using Pinniped will provide authentication for Kubernetes clusters but still requires the users to
be bound to Kubernetes roles.  To provide a starting point, the Tanzu Application Platform provides
six Kubernetes Roles as part of the installation that users can be bound to.  For more information
around the roles used for authorization, refer to the
[authentication and authorization documentation](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.5/tap/authn-authz-overview.html).

## Cryptographic Protections

Encryption of data is leveraged to prevent unauthorized access to data.  With the Tanzu Application
Platform, this protection focuses on the two primary states of data that should be encrypted:

1. Encryption of Data in Transit
2. Encryption of Data at Rest

### Encryption of Data in Transit

#### Internal Communication of Data in Transit Configuration

Communication between services that originates and terminates within the cluster is referred to as
internal communication. The Tanzu Application Platform is in the process of enabling TLS on
internal communication for components.

For those users who have a requirement to have all internal communication encrypted, there are three
remediating options:

1. Tanzu Application Platform supports enabling the Tanzu Service Mesh, which will provide mutual TLS between
components. For more information, please see the [guide](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.5/tap/integrations-tsm-tap-integration.html) for setting up Tanzu Service Mesh with the Tanzu Application Platform.
2. Kubernetes can be configured to encrypt all communication with a Container Networking Interface (CNI) that supports traffic encryption, like [Antrea](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/blob/main/docs/traffic-encryption.md).
3. The underlying network infrastructure running Kubernetes offers encryption on all network traffic.

#### External Comminication of Data in Transit Configuration

Based upon OSS doc:
[https://projectcontour.io/docs/v1.22.1/configuration/#tls-configuration](https://projectcontour.io/docs/v1.22.1/configuration/#tls-configuration)

TLS enables encryption of communication from end-users to the cluster. Since Contour is the edge
gateway for all the traffic ingressing into the cluster, it is an easy spot to set up TLS and ensure
that all communications between users and the cluster are encrypted.

It also allows cluster owners to satisfy compliance requirements like NIST 800-53 Control
[SC-8](https://csf.tools/reference/nist-sp-800-53/r4/sc/sc-8/) where it is required to protect the
confidentiality of transmitted information.

Moreover, it may be required that certain cipher suites and/or TLS versions are used when encrypting
communications.[NIST 800-52r2](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-52r2.pdf)
requires all government-only applications shall use TLS 1.2 and should be configured to use TLS 1.3
as well.

##### Configuring TLS for Contour

In order to configure Contour to use TLS according to the NIST 800-52r2 requirements you need to
create a new section in your `tap-values.yaml` file like:

```yaml
...
contour:
  * existing stuff, probably already there if you're following tap docs
  envoy:
    service:
      type: LoadBalancer # This is set by default, but can be overridden by setting a different value.
  * new stuff
  contour:
    configFileContents:
      tls:
        minimum-protocol-version: "1.2"
        cipher-suites:
        - '[ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256|ECDHE-ECDSA-CHACHA20-POLY1305]'
        - '[ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256|ECDHE-RSA-CHACHA20-POLY1305]'
        - 'ECDHE-ECDSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384'
        - 'ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384'
```

After adding this section, apply the tap-values file and that will change the configuration of TLS
to match the requirements.

For more settings in the Contour component, you can reference the
[open source documentation](https://projectcontour.io/docs/v1.22.1/configuration/#tls-configuration).

#### Ingress Certificates

Refer to [ingress certificates](./tls-and-certificates/ingress/about.hbs.md) to
learn how to configure TLS for a TAP installation's ingress endpoints.

### Encryption of Data At Rest

All data should be encrypted at rest.  The Tanzu Application Platform runs on top of the Kubernetes
platform and as such, TAP will verify the default storage class configured on the Kubernetes
cluster. Customers are required to provide a Persistent Volume Provisioner to the Kubernetes
infrastructure that supports encryption if the customers desire to have Encryption of Data at Rest as
an outcome.

- Persistent Volume claim encryption
- Data at rest should be encrypted.

### Ports and Protocols

Ports are used in TCP and UDP protocols for identification of applications. While some applications use well-known port numbers, such as 80 for HTTP, or 443 for HTTPS, some applications use dynamic ports. Open port refers to a port on which a system is accepting communication. An open port does not immediately mean a security issue, but it's important to understand that it can provide a pathway for attackers to the application listening on that port. To help with understanding the traffic flows in the Tanzu Application Platform, a list of TAP ports and protocols is available to existing and future customers upon request.

Please refer to [TAP Architecture Overview](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.4/tap-reference-architecture/GUID-reference-designs-tap-architecture-planning.html)

## Networking

TAP networking is a shared responsibility with customers to ensure that customer workloads only expose internal-only routes. All traffic should go through Contour and LoadBalancer without utilizing NodePort [services](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/). TAP is supported by [Tanzu Service Mesh](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.5/tap/integrations-tsm-tap-integration.html). It is vital that customers configure proper [affinity rules](https://knative.dev/docs/serving/configuration/feature-flags/#kubernetes-node-affinity) on knative deployed services. For more information, please refer to instructions for [installing TAP in an air-gapped environment](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.5/tap/install-air-gap.html?hWord=N4IghgNiBcIC5gHYC8CuACRBTOB3A9gE4DWIAvkA).


## Key Management

Key management is the foundation of all data security. Data is encrypted and decrypted via the use of encryption keys or secrets that must be safely stored to prevent the loss or compromise of infrastructure, systems, and applications. TAP values are secrets and must be protected to ensure the security and integrity of the platform.

- TAP stores all sensitive values as [Kubernetes Secrets](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/)
- Encryption of secrets at rest are Kubernetes Distribution Dependent.
- If customers desire to store secrets in a Secret Management service (e.g. [Hashicorp Vault](https://www.vaultproject.io),
  [Google Secrets Manager](https://cloud.google.com/secret-manager), [Amazon Secrets Manager](https://aws.amazon.com/secrets-manager/),
  [Microsoft Azure Key Vault](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/key-vault/)) they can make
  use of the [External Secrets Operator](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.5/tap/external-secrets-about-external-secrets-operator.html)
  to automate the lifecycle management (ALPHA).
- 800-53 [Section AC-23](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-53r5.pdf)
  related to safeguarding of sensitive information from exploitation (ex. TAP values)

## Logging

Log files provide an audit trail necessary to monitor activity within infrastructure, identify policy violations, unusual activity, and highlight security incidents. It is vital that logs are captured and retained according to the policies set forth by the organization's security team or governing body. TAP components run as pods on the Kubernetes infrastructure and all components output to standard out, captured as part of the pod logs.

All TAP components follow
[Kubernetes Logging](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/logging/) best practices.
Log aggregation should be implemented following the best practices of the organization log retention
process.

- 800-53 Section [AU-4 Audit Log Storage Capacity](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-53r5.pdf)

## Deployment Architecture

The Tanzu Application Platform provides a [reference architecture](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.4/tap-reference-architecture/GUID-reference-designs-tap-architecture-planning.html) which provides separation of components based on function.  This reference architecture recommends multiple Kubernetes clusters that serve the functions of "iterate","build","view", and "run" for users.  This separation is intended to provide separation of concerns for users, as well as protect the availability and performance of the platform from functions such as building and scanning, that could consume extensive resources from the cluster in a bursty nature.
