app-sso/service-operators/index.hbs.md, before:

# Application Single Sign-On for Service Operators

The following topics tell you how to configure a fully operational authorization 
server for Application Single Sign-On (commonly called AppSSO):

The following sections outline the essential steps to configure a fully
operational, ready-to-claim AppSSO service offering:

- [Unsafe test login](./unsafe-test-login.hbs.md)
- [Annotations and labels](./metadata.md)
- [Issuer URI and TLS](./issuer-uri-and-tls.md)
- [TLS scenario guides](./tls-scenario-guides.hbs.md)
- [CA certificates](./ca-certs.md)
- [Configure Workloads to trust a custom CA](./workload-trust-custom-ca.hbs.md)
- [Identity providers](./identity-providers.md)
- [Configure authorization](./configure-authorization.md)
- [Public clients and CORS](./cors.md)
- [Token settings](./token-settings.hbs.md)
- [Token signatures](./token-signature.md)
- [Storage](./storage.hbs.md)
- [AuthServer readiness](./readiness.md)
- [Scale AuthServer](./scale.md)
- [AuthServer audit logs](./audit-logs.md)

`AuthServer` represents the request for an OIDC authorization server. It results in the deployment of an authorization
server backed by Redis over mutual TLS if no [external storage](storage.hbs.md) is explicitly configured.

You can configure the labels with which clients can select an `AuthServer`, the namespaces it allows clients from,
its issuer URI, its token signature keys, identity providers and further details for its deployment.

For the full available configuration, `spec` and `status` see [the API reference](../reference/api/authserver.hbs.md).

Commit message:

docs(app-sso): learn how to curate an AppSSO service offering
[#185040812]

Signed-off-by: Max Brauer <mbrauer@vmware.com>

app-sso/service-operators/index.hbs.md, after:

# Application Single Sign-On for Service Operators

The following topics tell you how to configure a fully operational authorization 
server for Application Single Sign-On (commonly called AppSSO).

`AuthServer` represents the request for an OIDC authorization server. It
results in the deployment of an authorization server backed by Redis. A Redis
with mTLS is either automatically deployed for `AuthServer` or credentials to
[external storage](storage.hbs.md) can be provided. You can configure the
labels with which clients can select an `AuthServer`, the namespaces it allows
clients from, its issuer URI, its token signature keys, identity providers and
further details for its deployment.

`ClusterWorkloadRegistrationClass` exposes an `AuthServer` as a ready-to-claim
service offering. _Application operators_ can disover this offering and claim
credentials. The mechanisms for this are provided by [Services
Toolkit](../../services-toolkit/about.hbs.md). This is the recommended way for
offering and consuming AppSSO.

If you just want to get started in a non-production environment,
`ClusterUnsafeTestLogin` is a zero-config API which produces an unsafe,
ready-to-claim AppSSO service offering. It is a higher-level alternative to the
combination of `AuthServer` and `ClusterWorkloadRegistrationClass`.

For a full explanation of the available APIs, refer to [the API
reference](../reference/api/index.hbs.md).

The following sections outline the essential steps to configure a fully
operational, ready-to-claim AppSSO service offering:

- [Unsafe test login](./unsafe-test-login.hbs.md)
- [Annotations and labels](./metadata.md)
- [Issuer URI and TLS](./issuer-uri-and-tls.md)
- [TLS scenario guides](./tls-scenario-guides.hbs.md)
- [CA certificates](./ca-certs.md)
- [Configure Workloads to trust a custom CA](./workload-trust-custom-ca.hbs.md)
- [Identity providers](./identity-providers.md)
- [Configure authorization](./configure-authorization.md)
- [Public clients and CORS](./cors.md)
- [Token settings](./token-settings.hbs.md)
- [Token signatures](./token-signature.md)
- [Storage](./storage.hbs.md)
- [AuthServer readiness](./readiness.md)
- [Scale AuthServer](./scale.md)
- [AuthServer audit logs](./audit-logs.md)
- [Curating a service offering](./curate-service-offering.hbs.md)
