tap-gui/tap-gui-rbac/view-resources-rbac.hbs.md, before:

# View runtime resources on authorization-enabled clusters

To visualize runtime resources on authorization-enabled clusters in Tanzu Application Platform GUI
(commonly called TAP GUI), proceed to the software catalog component of choice and click the
**Runtime Resources** tab on top of the ribbon.

![Screenshot of Runtime Resources showing a table of 36 resources.](../images/tap-gui-multiple-clusters.png)

After you click **Runtime Resources**, Tanzu Application Platform GUI uses your credentials to
query the clusters for the respective runtime resources.
The system verifies that you are authenticated with the OIDC providers configured for the remote
clusters.
If you are not authenticated, the system prompts you for your OIDC credentials.

Remote clusters that are not restricted by authorization are visible by using the general Service
Account of Tanzu Application Platform GUI. It is not restricted for users.
For more information about how to set up unrestricted remote cluster visibility, see
[Viewing resources on multiple clusters in Tanzu Application Platform GUI](../cluster-view-setup.md).

The type of query to the remote cluster depends on the definition of the software catalog component.
In Tanzu Application Platform GUI, there are globally-scoped components
and namespace-scoped components.

This property of the component affects runtime resource visibility, depending on your permissions on
a specific cluster.

If your permissions on the authorization-enabled cluster are limited to specific namespaces, you
do not have visibility into runtime resources of globally-scoped components.

You need cluster-scoped access to have visibility into runtime resources of globally-scoped
components.

## <a id="globally-scoped-comps"></a> Globally-scoped components

For globally-scoped components, when you access **Runtime Resources** Tanzu Application Platform GUI
queries all Kubernetes namespaces for runtime resources that have a matching `kubernetes-label-selector`,
usually with a `part-Of` prefix.

For example, `demo-component-a` does not have a `backstage.io/kubernetes-namespace` in the `metadata.annotations`
section. This makes it a globally-scoped component. See the following example YAML.

```yaml
apiVersion: backstage.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: demo-component-a
  description: Demo Component A
  tags:
    - java
  annotations:
    'backstage.io/kubernetes-label-selector': 'app.kubernetes.io/part-of=component-a'
spec:
  type: service
  lifecycle: experimental
  owner: team-a
```

## <a id="namespace-scoped-comps"></a> Namespace-scoped components

If a component is namespace-scoped, when you access **Runtime Resources**
Tanzu Application Platform GUI queries only the associated Kubernetes namespace for each remote
cluster that is visible to Tanzu Application Platform GUI.

To make a component namespace-scoped, pass the following annotation to the definition
YAML file of the component:

```yaml
annotations:
  'backstage.io/kubernetes-namespace': NAMESPACE-NAME
```

Where `NAMESPACE-NAME` is the Kubernetes namespace you want to associate your component with.

For example, `demo-component-b` has a `kubernetes-namespace` in the `metadata.annotations` section,
which associates it with the `component-b` namespaces on each of the visible clusters.
This makes it a namespace-scoped component. See the following example YAML.

```yaml
apiVersion: backstage.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: demo-component-b
  description: Demo Component B
  tags:
    - java
  annotations:
    'backstage.io/kubernetes-label-selector': 'app.kubernetes.io/part-of=component-b'
    'backstage.io/kubernetes-namespace': component-b
spec:
  type: service
  lifecycle: experimental
  owner: team-b
```

When the `kubernetes-namespace` annotation is absent, the component is considered globally-scoped by
default. For more information, see
[Adding Namespace Annotation](https://backstage.io/docs/features/kubernetes/configuration#adding-the-namespace-annotation)
in the Backstage documentation.

Commit message:

[TAAP-1399] Change Tanzu Application Platform GUI to Tanzu Developer Portal

tap-gui/tap-gui-rbac/view-resources-rbac.hbs.md, after:

# View runtime resources on authorization-enabled clusters

To visualize runtime resources on authorization-enabled clusters in Tanzu Developer Portal
(commonly called TAP GUI), proceed to the software catalog component of choice and click the
**Runtime Resources** tab on top of the ribbon.

![Screenshot of Runtime Resources showing a table of 36 resources.](../images/tap-gui-multiple-clusters.png)

After you click **Runtime Resources**, Tanzu Developer Portal uses your credentials to
query the clusters for the respective runtime resources.
The system verifies that you are authenticated with the OIDC providers configured for the remote
clusters.
If you are not authenticated, the system prompts you for your OIDC credentials.

Remote clusters that are not restricted by authorization are visible by using the general Service
Account of Tanzu Developer Portal. It is not restricted for users.
For more information about how to set up unrestricted remote cluster visibility, see
[Viewing resources on multiple clusters in Tanzu Developer Portal](../cluster-view-setup.md).

The type of query to the remote cluster depends on the definition of the software catalog component.
In Tanzu Developer Portal, there are globally-scoped components
and namespace-scoped components.

This property of the component affects runtime resource visibility, depending on your permissions on
a specific cluster.

If your permissions on the authorization-enabled cluster are limited to specific namespaces, you
do not have visibility into runtime resources of globally-scoped components.

You need cluster-scoped access to have visibility into runtime resources of globally-scoped
components.

## <a id="globally-scoped-comps"></a> Globally-scoped components

For globally-scoped components, when you access **Runtime Resources** Tanzu Developer Portal
queries all Kubernetes namespaces for runtime resources that have a matching `kubernetes-label-selector`,
usually with a `part-Of` prefix.

For example, `demo-component-a` does not have a `backstage.io/kubernetes-namespace` in the `metadata.annotations`
section. This makes it a globally-scoped component. See the following example YAML.

```yaml
apiVersion: backstage.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: demo-component-a
  description: Demo Component A
  tags:
    - java
  annotations:
    'backstage.io/kubernetes-label-selector': 'app.kubernetes.io/part-of=component-a'
spec:
  type: service
  lifecycle: experimental
  owner: team-a
```

## <a id="namespace-scoped-comps"></a> Namespace-scoped components

If a component is namespace-scoped, when you access **Runtime Resources**
Tanzu Developer Portal queries only the associated Kubernetes namespace for each remote
cluster that is visible to Tanzu Developer Portal.

To make a component namespace-scoped, pass the following annotation to the definition
YAML file of the component:

```yaml
annotations:
  'backstage.io/kubernetes-namespace': NAMESPACE-NAME
```

Where `NAMESPACE-NAME` is the Kubernetes namespace you want to associate your component with.

For example, `demo-component-b` has a `kubernetes-namespace` in the `metadata.annotations` section,
which associates it with the `component-b` namespaces on each of the visible clusters.
This makes it a namespace-scoped component. See the following example YAML.

```yaml
apiVersion: backstage.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: demo-component-b
  description: Demo Component B
  tags:
    - java
  annotations:
    'backstage.io/kubernetes-label-selector': 'app.kubernetes.io/part-of=component-b'
    'backstage.io/kubernetes-namespace': component-b
spec:
  type: service
  lifecycle: experimental
  owner: team-b
```

When the `kubernetes-namespace` annotation is absent, the component is considered globally-scoped by
default. For more information, see
[Adding Namespace Annotation](https://backstage.io/docs/features/kubernetes/configuration#adding-the-namespace-annotation)
in the Backstage documentation.
