tap-gui/tls/overview.hbs.md, before:

# Overview of enabling TLS for Tanzu Application Platform GUI

Many users want inbound traffic to Tanzu Application Platform GUI (commonly called TAP GUI) to be
properly encrypted. These topics tell you how to enable TLS encryption either with an existing
certificate or by using the included cert-manager instance.

## <a id="concepts"></a> Concepts

The two key concepts are certificate delegation and the relationship between cert-manager,
certificates, and ClusterIssuers.

### <a id="cert-delegation"></a> Certificate delegation

Tanzu Application Platform GUI uses the established shared Contour ingress for TLS termination.

This enables you to store the certificate in a Kubernetes `secret` and then pass that `secret` and
`namespace` to the `httpProxy` that was created during installation.
To do this, see
[Configuring a TLS certificate by using an existing certificate](enable-tls-existing-cert.hbs.md).

![TLS diagram showing the relationships between Tanzu Application Platform GUI, the certificate, and Contour Shared Ingress.](images/TAP-GUI-TLS.png)

### <a id="cert-mngr-certs-clustiss"></a> cert-manager, certificates, and ClusterIssuers

Tanzu Application Platform GUI can also use the `cert-manager` package that is installed when
the profile was installed.

This tool allows cert-manager to automatically acquire a certificate from a `clusterIssuer` entity.

This external entity can be an external certificate authority, such as Let's Encrypt, or a
self-signed certificate.

![TLS diagram showing the relationships between Tanzu Application Platform GUI, the cert dash manager, and Contour Shared Ingress.](images/TAP-GUI-TLS-CERT.png)

## <a id="guides"></a> Guides

The following topics describe different ways to configure TLS:

- [Configuring a TLS certificate by using an existing certificate](enable-tls-existing-cert.hbs.md)
- [Configuring a TLS certificate by using a self-signed certificate](enable-self-signed-cert.hbs.md)
- [Configuring a TLS certificate by using cert-manager and a ClusterIssuer](cert-mngr-ext-clusterissuer.hbs.md)

Commit message:

[TAAP-1399] Change Tanzu Application Platform GUI to Tanzu Developer Portal

tap-gui/tls/overview.hbs.md, after:

# Overview of enabling TLS for Tanzu Developer Portal

Many users want inbound traffic to Tanzu Developer Portal (commonly called TAP GUI) to be
properly encrypted. These topics tell you how to enable TLS encryption either with an existing
certificate or by using the included cert-manager instance.

## <a id="concepts"></a> Concepts

The two key concepts are certificate delegation and the relationship between cert-manager,
certificates, and ClusterIssuers.

### <a id="cert-delegation"></a> Certificate delegation

Tanzu Developer Portal uses the established shared Contour ingress for TLS termination.

This enables you to store the certificate in a Kubernetes `secret` and then pass that `secret` and
`namespace` to the `httpProxy` that was created during installation.
To do this, see
[Configuring a TLS certificate by using an existing certificate](enable-tls-existing-cert.hbs.md).

![TLS diagram showing the relationships between Tanzu Developer Portal, the certificate, and Contour Shared Ingress.](images/TAP-GUI-TLS.png)

### <a id="cert-mngr-certs-clustiss"></a> cert-manager, certificates, and ClusterIssuers

Tanzu Developer Portal can also use the `cert-manager` package that is installed when
the profile was installed.

This tool allows cert-manager to automatically acquire a certificate from a `clusterIssuer` entity.

This external entity can be an external certificate authority, such as Let's Encrypt, or a
self-signed certificate.

![TLS diagram showing the relationships between Tanzu Developer Portal, the cert dash manager, and Contour Shared Ingress.](images/TAP-GUI-TLS-CERT.png)

## <a id="guides"></a> Guides

The following topics describe different ways to configure TLS:

- [Configuring a TLS certificate by using an existing certificate](enable-tls-existing-cert.hbs.md)
- [Configuring a TLS certificate by using a self-signed certificate](enable-self-signed-cert.hbs.md)
- [Configuring a TLS certificate by using cert-manager and a ClusterIssuer](cert-mngr-ext-clusterissuer.hbs.md)
