crossplane/about.hbs.md, before:

# Crossplane

Crossplane is an open source, Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) project built on the
foundation of Kubernetes.
Tanzu Application Platform uses Crossplane to power a number of capabilities, such as dynamic
provisioning of services instances with [Services Toolkit](../services-toolkit/about.hbs.md) and
the pre-installed [Bitnami Services](../bitnami-services/about.hbs.md).

## <a id="crossplane"></a> Crossplane with Tanzu Application Platform

Tanzu Application Platform includes a Carvel package named `crossplane.tanzu.vmware.com`, which is
included by default in the full, iterate, and run profiles.
The package installs [Upbound Universal Crossplane (UXP)](https://github.com/upbound/universal-crossplane).

In addition, the package includes two pre-configured Crossplane providers:
[provider-helm](https://github.com/crossplane-contrib/provider-helm) and [provider-kubernetes](https://github.com/crossplane-contrib/provider-kubernetes).
Both of providers provide useful [Managed Resources](https://docs.crossplane.io/latest/concepts/managed-resources/)
that you can use as part of [Composition](https://docs.crossplane.io/latest/concepts/composition/#compositions).
These are both used by Tanzu Application Platform's [Bitnami Services](../bitnami-services/about.hbs.md).

The package installs UXP and the providers to the `crossplane-system` namespace.

## <a id="getting-started"></a> Getting started

To learn about working with Crossplane in general, see the [Crossplane documentation](https://docs.crossplane.io/).
To learn about how Tanzu Application Platform integrates with Crossplane,
see one of the following tutorials to get started.

**For apps teams:**

- Tutorial: [Working with Bitnami Services](../bitnami-services/tutorials/working-with-bitnami-services.hbs.md)

**For ops teams:**

- Tutorial: [Setup Dynamic Provisioning of Service Instances](../services-toolkit/tutorials/setup-dynamic-provisioning.hbs.md)

Alternatively, see the [reference material](reference/index.hbs.md).

Commit message:

STK, Crossplane, Bitnami updates for TAP 1.6

crossplane/about.hbs.md, after:

# Crossplane

> **Note** If installing Tanzu Application Platform to a cluster which already has a pre-existing installation of Crossplane, please refer to [Use a pre-existing or out-of-band installation of Crossplane with Tanzu Application Platform](how-to-guides/use-pre-existing-crossplane-tap.hbs.md)

Crossplane is an open source, Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) project built on the
foundation of Kubernetes.
Tanzu Application Platform uses Crossplane to power a number of capabilities, such as dynamic
provisioning of services instances with [Services Toolkit](../services-toolkit/about.hbs.md) and
the pre-installed [Bitnami Services](../bitnami-services/about.hbs.md).

## <a id="crossplane"></a> Crossplane with Tanzu Application Platform

Tanzu Application Platform includes a Carvel package named `crossplane.tanzu.vmware.com`, which is
included by default in the full, iterate, and run profiles.
The package installs [Upbound Universal Crossplane (UXP)](https://github.com/upbound/universal-crossplane).

In addition, the package includes two pre-configured Crossplane providers:
[provider-helm](https://github.com/crossplane-contrib/provider-helm) and [provider-kubernetes](https://github.com/crossplane-contrib/provider-kubernetes).
Both of providers provide useful [Managed Resources](https://docs.crossplane.io/latest/concepts/managed-resources/)
that you can use as part of [Composition](https://docs.crossplane.io/latest/concepts/composition/#compositions).
These are both used by Tanzu Application Platform's [Bitnami Services](../bitnami-services/about.hbs.md).

The package installs UXP and the providers to the `crossplane-system` namespace.

## <a id="getting-started"></a> Getting started

To learn about working with Crossplane in general, see the [Crossplane documentation](https://docs.crossplane.io/).
To learn about how Tanzu Application Platform integrates with Crossplane,
see one of the following tutorials to get started.

**For apps teams:**

- Tutorial: [Working with Bitnami Services](../bitnami-services/tutorials/working-with-bitnami-services.hbs.md)

**For ops teams:**

- Tutorial: [Setup Dynamic Provisioning of Service Instances](../services-toolkit/tutorials/setup-dynamic-provisioning.hbs.md)
- How-to guide: [Use a pre-existing or out-of-band installation of Crossplane with Tanzu Application Platform](how-to-guides/use-pre-existing-crossplane-tap.hbs.md)
- How-to guide: [Delete all Crossplane resources upon deletion of Tanzu Application Platform](how-to-guides/delete-resources.hbs.md)

Alternatively, see the [reference material](reference/index.hbs.md).
