security-and-compliance/tls-and-certificates/custom-ca-certificates.hbs.md, before:

# Custom CA certificates

You configure trust for custom CAs. This is helpful if any Tanzu Application Platforms components
are connecting to services that serve certificates issued by private certificate authorities.

The `shared.ca_cert_data` installation value can contain a PEM-encoded CA bundle. Each component
then trusts the CAs contained in the bundle.

You can also configure trust per component by providing a CA bundle in the component's installation
values. The component then trusts those CAs and the CAs configured in `shared.ca_cert_data`.
For more information, see [components](../../components.hbs.md).

For example:

```yaml
#! my-tap-values.yaml

shared:
  ca_cert_data: |
    Corporate CA 1
    -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
    MIIFmDCCA4....
    -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    Corporate CA 2
    -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
    MIIFkzCCA3....
    -----END CERTIFICATE-----

```

For information about using Git with a custom CA in supply chains and configuring the `caFile` parameter, see [Git Authentication](../../scc/git-auth.hbs.md#https-with-custom-ca-certificate).

Commit message:

Clarify the use of CA certificates in Flux, ESO, and Tekton

security-and-compliance/tls-and-certificates/custom-ca-certificates.hbs.md, after:

# Custom CA certificates

You configure trust for custom CAs. This is helpful if any Tanzu Application Platforms components
are connecting to services that serve certificates issued by private certificate authorities.

The `shared.ca_cert_data` installation value can contain a PEM-encoded CA bundle. Each component
then trusts the CAs contained in the bundle.

You can also configure trust per component by providing a CA bundle in the component's installation
values. The component then trusts those CAs and the CAs configured in `shared.ca_cert_data`.
For more information, see [components](../../components.hbs.md).

For example:

```yaml
#! my-tap-values.yaml

shared:
  ca_cert_data: |
    Corporate CA 1
    -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
    MIIFmDCCA4....
    -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    Corporate CA 2
    -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
    MIIFkzCCA3....
    -----END CERTIFICATE-----

```

*NOTE*: Some TAP components do not support the `shared.ca_cert_data` feature.
In particular FluxCD, Tekton, and the External Secrets operator do not use the
`shared.ca_cert_data` feature and any custom CA certificates must be configured
directly by those products.

For information about using Git with a custom CA in supply chains and configuring the `caFile` parameter, see [Git Authentication](../../scc/git-auth.hbs.md#https-with-custom-ca-certificate).
