app-sso/reference/api/clientregistration.hbs.md, before:

# ClientRegistration

`ClientRegistration` is the request for client credentials for an [AuthServer](./authserver.hbs.md).

It implements the [Service Bindings](https://servicebinding.io/spec/core/1.0.0/) `ProvisionedService`. The credentials
are returned as a [Service Bindings](https://servicebinding.io/spec/core/1.0.0/) `Secret`.

A `ClientRegistration` must uniquely identify an `AuthServer` by using `spec.authServerSelector`. If it matches none,
too many or a disallowed `AuthServer`, it does not get credentials. The other fields are for the configuration of the
client on the `AuthServer`.

## Spec

```yaml
apiVersion: sso.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: ClientRegistration
metadata:
  name: ""
  namespace: ""
spec:
  authServerSelector: # required
    matchLabels: { }
  redirectURIs: # required
    - ""
  scopes: # optional
    - name: ""
      description: ""
  authorizationGrantTypes: # optional
    - client_credentials
    - authorization_code
    - refresh_token
  clientAuthenticationMethod: "" # optional, values accepted are described in Client authentication methods section 
  requireUserConsent: false # optional
status:
  authServerRef:
    apiVersion: ""
    issuerURI: ""
    kind: ""
    name: ""
    namespace: ""
  binding:
    name: ""
  clientID: ""
  clientSecretHelp: ""
  conditions:
    - lastTransitionTime: ""
      message: ""
      reason: ""
      status: "True" # or "False"
      type: ""
  observedGeneration: 0
```

Alternatively, you can interactively discover the spec with:

```shell
kubectl explain clientregistrations.sso.apps.tanzu.vmware.com
```

## <a id='client-auth-methods'></a> Client authentication methods

Client authentication methods supported by `ClientRegistration` resource are:

- `client_secret_basic`: HTTP header based client authentication (default).
- `client_secret_post`: HTTP POST body based client authentication.
- `basic` (deprecated):  HTTP header based client authentication. Use `client_secret_basic` instead.
- `post` (deprecated): HTTP POST body based client authentication. Use `client_secret_post` instead.
- `none`: No client authentication. Required for public clients. 
For more information, see [Public clients and CORS](../../service-operators/cors.md).

> **Caution** When running Workloads using Spring Boot 3, you must use `client_secret_basic` or `client_secret_post`.
> For more information, see [Spring Boot 3 based Workloads and ClientRegistration resources](../../known-issues/index.hbs.md#boot3-clientreg).

## Status & conditions

The `.status` subresource helps you to learn about your client credentials, the matched `AuthServer` and to troubleshoot
issues.

`.status.authServerRef` identifies the successfully matched `AuthServer` and its issuer URI.

`.status.binding.name` is the name of the Service Bindings `Secret` which contains the client credentials.

`.status.conditions` documents each step in the reconciliation:

- `Valid`: Is the spec valid?
- `AuthServerResolved`: Has the targeted `AuthServer` been resolved?
- `ClientSecretResolved`: Has the client secret been resolved?
- `ServiceBindingSecretApplied`: Has the Service Bindings Secret with the client credentials been applied?
- `AuthServerConfigured`: Has the resolved `AuthServer` been configured with the client?
- `Ready`: whether all the previous conditions are "True"

The super condition `Ready` denotes a fully successful reconciliation of a given `ClientRegistration`.

If everything goes well you will see something like this:

```yaml
status:
  authServerRef:
    apiVersion: sso.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
    issuerURI: http://authserver-sample.default
    kind: AuthServer
    name: authserver-sample
    namespace: default
  binding:
    name: clientregistration-sample
  clientID: default_clientregistration-sample
  clientSecretHelp: 'Find your clientSecret: ''kubectl get secret clientregistration-sample --namespace default'''
  conditions:
    - lastTransitionTime: "2022-05-13T07:56:41Z"
      message: ""
      reason: Updated
      status: "True"
      type: AuthServerConfigured
    - lastTransitionTime: "2022-05-13T07:56:40Z"
      message: ""
      reason: Resolved
      status: "True"
      type: AuthServerResolved
    - lastTransitionTime: "2022-05-13T07:56:40Z"
      message: ""
      reason: ResolvedFromBindingSecret
      status: "True"
      type: ClientSecretResolved
    - lastTransitionTime: "2022-05-13T07:56:41Z"
      message: ""
      reason: Ready
      status: "True"
      type: Ready
    - lastTransitionTime: "2022-05-13T07:56:40Z"
      message: ""
      reason: Applied
      status: "True"
      type: ServiceBindingSecretApplied
    - lastTransitionTime: "2022-05-13T07:56:40Z"
      message: ""
      reason: Valid
      status: "True"
      type: Valid
  observedGeneration: 1
```

## Example

```yaml
apiVersion: sso.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: ClientRegistration
metadata:
  name: my-client-registration
  namespace: app-team
spec:
  authServerSelector:
    matchLabels:
      for: app-team
      ldap: "true"
  redirectURIs:
    - "https://127.0.0.1:8080/authorized"
    - "https://my-application.com/authorized"
  requireUserConsent: false
  clientAuthenticationMethod: client_secret_basic
  authorizationGrantTypes:
    - "client_credentials"
    - "refresh_token"
  scopes:
    - name: "openid"
      description: "To indicate that the application intends to use OIDC to verify the user's identity"
    - name: "email"
      description: "The user's email"
    - name: "profile"
      description: "The user's profile information"
```

The client is registered with the authorization server with the given `spec`. The resulting client credentials are
available in a `Secret` that the `ClientRegistration` owns.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
type: servicebinding.io/oauth2
metadata:
  name: my-client-registration
  namespace: app-team
data: # fields below are base64-decoded for display purposes only
  type: oauth2
  provider: appsso
  client-id: default_my-client-registration
  client-secret: c2VjcmV0 # auto-generated
  issuer-uri: https://appsso.example.com
  client-authentication-method: basic
  scope: openid,email,profile
  authorization-grant-types: client_credentials,refresh_token
```

Commit message:

Adds identity token claims mapping docs for AppSSO

app-sso/reference/api/clientregistration.hbs.md, after:

# ClientRegistration

`ClientRegistration` is the request for client credentials for an [AuthServer](./authserver.hbs.md).

It implements the [Service Bindings](https://servicebinding.io/spec/core/1.0.0/) `ProvisionedService`. The credentials
are returned as a [Service Bindings](https://servicebinding.io/spec/core/1.0.0/) `Secret`.

A `ClientRegistration` must uniquely identify an `AuthServer` by using `spec.authServerSelector`. If it matches none,
too many or a disallowed `AuthServer`, it does not get credentials. The other fields are for the configuration of the
client on the `AuthServer`.

## Spec

```yaml
apiVersion: sso.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: ClientRegistration
metadata:
  name: ""
  namespace: ""
spec:
  authServerSelector: # required
    matchLabels: { }
  redirectURIs: # required
    - ""
  scopes: # optional
    - name: ""
      description: ""
  authorizationGrantTypes: # optional
    - client_credentials
    - authorization_code
    - refresh_token
  clientAuthenticationMethod: "" # optional, values accepted are described in Client authentication methods section 
  requireUserConsent: false # optional
status:
  authServerRef:
    apiVersion: ""
    issuerURI: ""
    kind: ""
    name: ""
    namespace: ""
  binding:
    name: ""
  clientID: ""
  clientSecretHelp: ""
  conditions:
    - lastTransitionTime: ""
      message: ""
      reason: ""
      status: "True" # or "False"
      type: ""
  observedGeneration: 0
```

Alternatively, you can interactively discover the spec with:

```shell
kubectl explain clientregistrations.sso.apps.tanzu.vmware.com
```

## <a id='scopes'></a> Scopes

**Identity token**

- **`openid`** scope must be included for identity tokens to be issued.
- **`profile`** scope must be included for custom-mapped claims to be included in an issued identity token. e.g. `AuthServer.identityProviders[*].{openID,ldap,saml}.idToken.claims`. See [identity token claims mapping docs](../../service-operators/identity-providers.hbs.md#id-token-claims-mapping)
- **`email`** scope must be included to retain `email` and `email_verified` claims.
- **`address`** scope must be included to retain `address` claim.
- **`phone`** scope must be included to retain `phone_number` and `phone_number_verified` claims.
- **`roles`** scope must be included to be able to retrieve user role information from an upstream identity provider.
  See [configure authorization](../../service-operators/configure-authorization.hbs.md)

## <a id='client-auth-methods'></a> Client authentication methods

Client authentication methods supported by `ClientRegistration` resource are:

- `client_secret_basic`: HTTP header based client authentication (default).
- `client_secret_post`: HTTP POST body based client authentication.
- `basic` (deprecated):  HTTP header based client authentication. Use `client_secret_basic` instead.
- `post` (deprecated): HTTP POST body based client authentication. Use `client_secret_post` instead.
- `none`: No client authentication. Required for public clients. 
For more information, see [Public clients and CORS](../../service-operators/cors.md).

> **Caution** When running Workloads using Spring Boot 3, you must use `client_secret_basic` or `client_secret_post`.
> For more information, see [Spring Boot 3 based Workloads and ClientRegistration resources](../../known-issues/index.hbs.md#boot3-clientreg).

## Status & conditions

The `.status` subresource helps you to learn about your client credentials, the matched `AuthServer` and to troubleshoot
issues.

`.status.authServerRef` identifies the successfully matched `AuthServer` and its issuer URI.

`.status.binding.name` is the name of the Service Bindings `Secret` which contains the client credentials.

`.status.conditions` documents each step in the reconciliation:

- `Valid`: Is the spec valid?
- `AuthServerResolved`: Has the targeted `AuthServer` been resolved?
- `ClientSecretResolved`: Has the client secret been resolved?
- `ServiceBindingSecretApplied`: Has the Service Bindings Secret with the client credentials been applied?
- `AuthServerConfigured`: Has the resolved `AuthServer` been configured with the client?
- `Ready`: whether all the previous conditions are "True"

The super condition `Ready` denotes a fully successful reconciliation of a given `ClientRegistration`.

If everything goes well you will see something like this:

```yaml
status:
  authServerRef:
    apiVersion: sso.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
    issuerURI: http://authserver-sample.default
    kind: AuthServer
    name: authserver-sample
    namespace: default
  binding:
    name: clientregistration-sample
  clientID: default_clientregistration-sample
  clientSecretHelp: 'Find your clientSecret: ''kubectl get secret clientregistration-sample --namespace default'''
  conditions:
    - lastTransitionTime: "2022-05-13T07:56:41Z"
      message: ""
      reason: Updated
      status: "True"
      type: AuthServerConfigured
    - lastTransitionTime: "2022-05-13T07:56:40Z"
      message: ""
      reason: Resolved
      status: "True"
      type: AuthServerResolved
    - lastTransitionTime: "2022-05-13T07:56:40Z"
      message: ""
      reason: ResolvedFromBindingSecret
      status: "True"
      type: ClientSecretResolved
    - lastTransitionTime: "2022-05-13T07:56:41Z"
      message: ""
      reason: Ready
      status: "True"
      type: Ready
    - lastTransitionTime: "2022-05-13T07:56:40Z"
      message: ""
      reason: Applied
      status: "True"
      type: ServiceBindingSecretApplied
    - lastTransitionTime: "2022-05-13T07:56:40Z"
      message: ""
      reason: Valid
      status: "True"
      type: Valid
  observedGeneration: 1
```

## Example

```yaml
apiVersion: sso.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: ClientRegistration
metadata:
  name: my-client-registration
  namespace: app-team
spec:
  authServerSelector:
    matchLabels:
      for: app-team
      ldap: "true"
  redirectURIs:
    - "https://127.0.0.1:8080/authorized"
    - "https://my-application.com/authorized"
  requireUserConsent: false
  clientAuthenticationMethod: client_secret_basic
  authorizationGrantTypes:
    - "client_credentials"
    - "refresh_token"
  scopes:
    - name: "openid"
      description: "To indicate that the application intends to use OIDC to verify the user's identity"
    - name: "email"
      description: "The user's email"
    - name: "profile"
      description: "The user's profile information"
```

The client is registered with the authorization server with the given `spec`. The resulting client credentials are
available in a `Secret` that the `ClientRegistration` owns.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
type: servicebinding.io/oauth2
metadata:
  name: my-client-registration
  namespace: app-team
data: # fields below are base64-decoded for display purposes only
  type: oauth2
  provider: appsso
  client-id: default_my-client-registration
  client-secret: c2VjcmV0 # auto-generated
  issuer-uri: https://appsso.example.com
  client-authentication-method: basic
  scope: openid,email,profile
  authorization-grant-types: client_credentials,refresh_token
```
