app-sso/reference/api/clusterunsafetestlogin.hbs.md, before:

# ClusterUnsafeTestLogin API for AppSSO

`ClusterUnsafeTestLogin` is the recommended way to get started with Application 
Single Sign-On (commonly called AppSSO) in non-production environments and it is 
not safe for production.

`ClusterUnsafeTestLogin` represents the request for an unsafe, ready-to-claim
AppSSO service offering. It reconciles into an unsafe `AuthServer`, a token
signing key `Secret` and a `ClusterWorkloadRegistrationClass`. It is
cluster-scoped. It has no specifications. Its short name is `cutl`.

Its `AuthServer` is `http` only, which allows all CORS origins, runs a single
replica, and has a single `user:password` login. Its name is prefixed with
`unsafe-`. Its issuer URI resembles `http://unsafe-demo.appsso.example.com`.

Its `ClusterWorkloadRegistrationClass` templates `WorkloadRegistration` with
safe and unsafe redirect URIs. That means a redirect path is templated with
both `https` and `http` as the scheme.

Its namespace-scoped resources are placed in the cluster resource namespace.
The cluster resource namespace is
[configurable](../package-configuration.hbs.md). The default cluster resource
namespace is `appsso`.

Once created, you can discover it with the `tanzu` CLI:

```console
❯ tanzu services classes list
  NAME      DESCRIPTION
  <name>    Login by AppSSO - user:password - UNSAFE FOR PRODUCTION!
```

## <a id="spec"></a> Specification

```yaml
---
apiVersion: sso.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterUnsafeTestLogin
metadata:
  name: "" #! required
status:
  clusterResourceNamespace: ""
  conditions:
  - lastTransitionTime: ""
    message: ""
    reason: ""
    status: ""
    type: AuthServerReady
  - lastTransitionTime: ""
    message: ""
    reason: ""
    status: ""
    type: ClusterWorkloadRegistrationClassReady
  - lastTransitionTime: ""
    message: ""
    reason: ""
    status: ""
    type: Ready
  - lastTransitionTime: ""
    message: ""
    reason: ""
    status: ""
    type: SignAndVerifyKeyConditionReady
  observedGeneration: 0
  tokenSignature:
    signAndverifyKey:
      name: ""
      pem: ""
```

## <a id="example"></a> Example

Due to the zero-configuration nature of the `ClusterUnsafeTestLogin` API, 
there exists only a single feasible example:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: sso.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterUnsafeTestLogin
metadata:
  name: demo
```

Commit message:

docs(app-sso): cutl's user has roles and claims
[#185312352]

Signed-off-by: Max Brauer <mbrauer@vmware.com>

app-sso/reference/api/clusterunsafetestlogin.hbs.md, after:

# ClusterUnsafeTestLogin API for AppSSO

`ClusterUnsafeTestLogin` is the recommended way to get started with Application 
Single Sign-On (commonly called AppSSO) in non-production environments and it is 
not safe for production.

`ClusterUnsafeTestLogin` represents the request for an unsafe, ready-to-claim
AppSSO service offering. It reconciles into an unsafe `AuthServer`, a token
signing key `Secret` and a `ClusterWorkloadRegistrationClass`. It is
cluster-scoped. It has no specifications. Its short name is `cutl`.

Its `AuthServer` is `http` only, which allows all CORS origins and runs with a
single replica. Its name is prefixed with `unsafe-`. Its issuer URI resembles
`http://unsafe-demo.appsso.example.com`.

There's a single `user:password` login. That user has roles `user` and `test`
as well as claims `first_name=First-Name`, `last_name=Last-Name` and
`email=user@example.com`.

Its `ClusterWorkloadRegistrationClass` templates `WorkloadRegistration` with
safe and unsafe redirect URIs. That means a redirect path is templated with
both `https` and `http` as the scheme.

Its namespace-scoped resources are placed in the cluster resource namespace.
The cluster resource namespace is
[configurable](../package-configuration.hbs.md). The default cluster resource
namespace is `appsso`.

Once created, you can discover it with the `tanzu` CLI:

```console
❯ tanzu services classes list
  NAME      DESCRIPTION
  <name>    Login by AppSSO - user:password - UNSAFE FOR PRODUCTION!
```

## <a id="spec"></a> Specification

```yaml
---
apiVersion: sso.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterUnsafeTestLogin
metadata:
  name: "" #! required
status:
  clusterResourceNamespace: ""
  conditions:
  - lastTransitionTime: ""
    message: ""
    reason: ""
    status: ""
    type: AuthServerReady
  - lastTransitionTime: ""
    message: ""
    reason: ""
    status: ""
    type: ClusterWorkloadRegistrationClassReady
  - lastTransitionTime: ""
    message: ""
    reason: ""
    status: ""
    type: Ready
  - lastTransitionTime: ""
    message: ""
    reason: ""
    status: ""
    type: SignAndVerifyKeyConditionReady
  observedGeneration: 0
  tokenSignature:
    signAndverifyKey:
      name: ""
      pem: ""
```

## <a id="example"></a> Example

Due to the zero-configuration nature of the `ClusterUnsafeTestLogin` API, 
there exists only a single feasible example:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: sso.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterUnsafeTestLogin
metadata:
  name: demo
```
