app-sso/platform-operators/installation.hbs.md, before:

# Install Application Single Sign-On

This topic tells you how to install Application Single Sign-On (commonly called AppSSO) 
from the Tanzu Application Platform package repository.

>**Note** Follow the steps in this topic if you do not want to use a profile to install Application Single Sign-On.
For more information about profiles, see [Components and installation profiles](../../about-package-profiles.hbs.md).

## What's inside

The AppSSO package installs the following resources:

- The `appsso` namespace with a deployment of the AppSSO controller and services for webhooks.
- [RBAC](../reference/rbac.hbs.md)
- [APIs](../reference/api/index.hbs.md)

## Prerequisites

Before installing AppSSO, please ensure you have Tanzu Application Platform installed on your Kubernetes cluster.

## Installation

1. Learn more about the AppSSO package:

   ```shell
   tanzu package available get sso.apps.tanzu.vmware.com --namespace tap-install
   ```

1. Install the AppSSO package:

   ```shell
   tanzu package install appsso \
     --namespace tap-install \
     --package-name sso.apps.tanzu.vmware.com \
     --version {{ vars.app-sso.version }}
   ```

1. Confirm the package has reconciled successfully:

   ```shell
   tanzu package installed get appsso --namespace tap-install
   ```

Commit message:

docs(app-sso): migrate package configuration into reference
[#185040812]

Signed-off-by: Max Brauer <mbrauer@vmware.com>

app-sso/platform-operators/installation.hbs.md, after:

# Install Application Single Sign-On

This topic tells you how to install Application Single Sign-On (commonly called AppSSO) 
from the Tanzu Application Platform package repository.

>**Note** Follow the steps in this topic if you do not want to use a profile to install Application Single Sign-On.
For more information about profiles, see [Components and installation profiles](../../about-package-profiles.hbs.md).

## What's inside

The AppSSO package installs the following resources:

- The `appsso` namespace with a deployment of the AppSSO controller and services for webhooks.
- [RBAC](../reference/rbac.hbs.md)
- [APIs](../reference/api/index.hbs.md)

## Prerequisites

Before installing AppSSO, please ensure you have Tanzu Application Platform
installed on your Kubernetes cluster.

In particular, the `sso.apps.tanzu.vmware.com` package has these dependencies:

* `cert-manager.tanzu.vmware.com` (installation-time and runtime)
* `crossplane.tanzu.vmware.com` (installation-time and runtime)
* `service-bindings.tanzu.vmware.com` (runtime)

## Installation

1. Learn more about the AppSSO package:

   ```shell
   tanzu package available get sso.apps.tanzu.vmware.com --namespace tap-install
   ```

1. Install the AppSSO package:

   ```shell
   tanzu package install appsso \
     --namespace tap-install \
     --package-name sso.apps.tanzu.vmware.com \
     --version {{ vars.app-sso.version }}
   ```

1. Confirm the package has reconciled successfully:

   ```shell
   tanzu package installed get appsso --namespace tap-install
   ```

## Configuration

For the AppSSO package to meet your needs, refer to the [package configuration
reference](../reference/package-configuration.hbs.md).
