scst-scan/clusterimagetemplates.hbs.md, before:

# Author a ClusterImageTemplate for Supply Chain integration

This topic tells you how to create your own ClusterImageTemplate and customize the embedded ImageVulnerabilityScan to use the scanner of your choice.

## Create a ClusterImageTemplate

To create a ClusterImageTemplate using an ImageVulnerabilityScan with Trivy:

1. Create a YAML file with the following content and name it `custom-ivs-template.yaml`.

  ```yaml
  apiVersion: carto.run/v1alpha1
  kind: ClusterImageTemplate
  metadata:
    name: image-vulnerability-scan-custom # input name of your ClusterImageTemplate
  spec:
    imagePath: .status.scannedImage
    retentionPolicy:
      maxFailedRuns: 10
      maxSuccessfulRuns: 10
    lifecycle: immutable

    healthRule:
      multiMatch:
        healthy:
          matchConditions:
            - status: "True"
              type: ScanCompleted
            - status: "True"
              type: Succeeded
        unhealthy:
          matchConditions:
            - status: "False"
              type: ScanCompleted
            - status: "False"
              type: Succeeded

    params:
      - name: image_scanning_workspace_size
        default: 4Gi
      - name: image_scanning_service_account_scanner
        default: scanner
      - name: image_scanning_service_account_publisher
        default: publisher
      - name: trivy_db_repository
        default: ghcr.io/aquasecurity/trivy-db
      - name: trivy_java_db_repository
        default: ghcr.io/aquasecurity/trivy-java-db
      - name: registry-server
        default: my-registry.io    # input your registry server
      - name: registry-repository
        default: my-registry-repository    # input your registry repository

    ytt: |
      #@ load("@ytt:data", "data")

      #@ def merge_labels(fixed_values):
      #@   labels = {}
      #@   if hasattr(data.values.workload.metadata, "labels"):
      #@     labels.update(data.values.workload.metadata.labels)
      #@   end
      #@   labels.update(fixed_values)
      #@   return labels
      #@ end

      #@ def scanResultsLocation():
      #@   return "/".join([
      #@    data.values.params.registry-server,
      #@    data.values.params.registry-repository,
      #@    "-".join([
      #@      data.values.workload.metadata.name,
      #@      data.values.workload.metadata.namespace,
      #@      "scan-results",
      #@    ])
      #@   ]) + ":" + data.values.workload.metadata.uid
      #@ end

      ---
      apiVersion: app-scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
      kind: ImageVulnerabilityScan
      metadata:
        labels: #@ merge_labels({ "app.kubernetes.io/component": "image-scan" })
        generateName: #@ data.values.workload.metadata.name + "-trivy-scan-"
      spec:
        image: #@ data.values.image
        scanResults:
          location: #@ scanResultsLocation()
        workspace:
          size: #@ data.values.params.image_scanning_workspace_size
        serviceAccountNames:
          scanner: #@ data.values.params.image_scanning_service_account_scanner
          publisher: #@ data.values.params.image_scanning_service_account_publisher
        steps:
        - name: trivy-generate-report
          image: my.registry.com/aquasec/trivy:0.41.0     # input the location of your trivy scanner image
          env:
          - name: TRIVY_DB_REPOSITORY
            value: #@ data.values.params.trivy_db_repository
          - name: TRIVY_JAVA_DB_REPOSITORY
            value: #@ data.values.params.trivy_java_db_repository
          - name: TRIVY_CACHE_DIR
            value: /workspace/trivy-cache
          - name: XDG_CACHE_HOME
            value: /workspace/.cache
          - name: TMPDIR
            value: /workspace
          args:
          - image
          - $(params.image)
          - --exit-code=0
          - --no-progress
          - --scanners=vuln
          - --format=cyclonedx
          - --output=scan.cdx.json
        - name: trivy-display-report
          image: my.registry.com/aquasec/trivy:0.41.0     # input the location of your trivy scanner image
          env:
          - name: TRIVY_DB_REPOSITORY
            value: #@ data.values.params.trivy_db_repository
          - name: TRIVY_JAVA_DB_REPOSITORY
            value: #@ data.values.params.trivy_java_db_repository
          - name: TRIVY_CACHE_DIR
            value: /workspace/trivy-cache
          - name: XDG_CACHE_HOME
            value: /workspace/.cache
          - name: TMPDIR
            value: /workspace
          args:
          - image
          - $(params.image)
          - --skip-db-update
          - --skip-java-db-update
          - --exit-code=0
          - --scanners=vuln
          - --severity=HIGH
          - --no-progress
  ```

  Where:

  - `.metadata.name` is the name of your ClusterImageTemplate. Ensure that it does not conflict with the names of packaged templates. See [Author your supply chains](../scc/authoring-supply-chains.hbs.md#providing-your-own-templates).
  - `registry-server` is the registry server.
  - `registry-repository` is the registry repository.

1. Update the name of your ClusterImageTemplate, the registry fields for your registry, and the location of your Trivy scanner image by editing your `custom-ivs-template.yaml`.

2. Create the ClusterImageTemplate:

    ```console
    kubectl apply -f custom-ivs-template.yaml
    ```

3. After you create your custom ClusterImageTemplate, you can integrate it with SCST - Scan 2.0. See [Supply Chain Security Tools - Scan 2.0](./app-scanning-alpha.hbs.md#configuring-the-supply-chain).

Commit message:

Added active keychain and instructions to embed ivs

scst-scan/clusterimagetemplates.hbs.md, after:

# Author a ClusterImageTemplate for Supply Chain integration

This topic tells you how to create your own ClusterImageTemplate and customize the embedded ImageVulnerabilityScan to use the scanner of your choice.

- A prerequisite is that you have [created your own ImageVulnerabilityScan](./app-scanning-alpha.hbs.md#integrate-your-own-scanner) or configured one of the samples provided in [Configure your custom ImageVulnerabilityScan](./custom-ivs-samples.md).

## Create a ClusterImageTemplate

The below steps describe how to create a ClusterImageTemplate using an ImageVulnerabilityScan with Trivy. To use a different scanner, replace the embedded ImageVulnerabilityScan with your own.

1. Create a YAML file with the following content and name it `custom-ivs-template.yaml`.

  ```yaml
  apiVersion: carto.run/v1alpha1
  kind: ClusterImageTemplate
  metadata:
    name: image-vulnerability-scan-custom # input name of your ClusterImageTemplate
  spec:
    imagePath: .status.scannedImage
    retentionPolicy:
      maxFailedRuns: 10
      maxSuccessfulRuns: 10
    lifecycle: immutable

    healthRule:
      multiMatch:
        healthy:
          matchConditions:
            - status: "True"
              type: ScanCompleted
            - status: "True"
              type: Succeeded
        unhealthy:
          matchConditions:
            - status: "False"
              type: ScanCompleted
            - status: "False"
              type: Succeeded

    params:
      - name: image_scanning_workspace_size
        default: 4Gi
      - name: image_scanning_service_account_scanner
        default: scanner
      - name: image_scanning_service_account_publisher
        default: publisher
      - name: image_scanning_active_keychains
        default: []
      - name: trivy_db_repository
        default: ghcr.io/aquasecurity/trivy-db
      - name: trivy_java_db_repository
        default: ghcr.io/aquasecurity/trivy-java-db
      - name: registry-server
        default: my-registry.io    # input your registry server
      - name: registry-repository
        default: my-registry-repository    # input your registry repository

    ytt: |
      #@ load("@ytt:data", "data")

      #@ def merge_labels(fixed_values):
      #@   labels = {}
      #@   if hasattr(data.values.workload.metadata, "labels"):
      #@     labels.update(data.values.workload.metadata.labels)
      #@   end
      #@   labels.update(fixed_values)
      #@   return labels
      #@ end

      #@ def scanResultsLocation():
      #@   return "/".join([
      #@    data.values.params.registry-server,
      #@    data.values.params.registry-repository,
      #@    "-".join([
      #@      data.values.workload.metadata.name,
      #@      data.values.workload.metadata.namespace,
      #@      "scan-results",
      #@    ])
      #@   ]) + ":" + data.values.workload.metadata.uid
      #@ end

      ---
      apiVersion: app-scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
      kind: ImageVulnerabilityScan
      metadata:
        labels: #@ merge_labels({ "app.kubernetes.io/component": "image-scan" })
        generateName: #@ data.values.workload.metadata.name + "-trivy-scan-"
      spec:
        image: #@ data.values.image
        activeKeychains: #@ data.values.params.image_scanning_active_keychains
        scanResults:
          location: #@ scanResultsLocation()
        workspace:
          size: #@ data.values.params.image_scanning_workspace_size
        serviceAccountNames:
          scanner: #@ data.values.params.image_scanning_service_account_scanner
          publisher: #@ data.values.params.image_scanning_service_account_publisher
        steps:
        - name: trivy-generate-report
          image: my.registry.com/aquasec/trivy:0.41.0     # input the location of your trivy scanner image
          env:
          - name: TRIVY_DB_REPOSITORY
            value: #@ data.values.params.trivy_db_repository
          - name: TRIVY_JAVA_DB_REPOSITORY
            value: #@ data.values.params.trivy_java_db_repository
          - name: TRIVY_CACHE_DIR
            value: /workspace/trivy-cache
          - name: XDG_CACHE_HOME
            value: /workspace/.cache
          - name: TMPDIR
            value: /workspace
          args:
          - image
          - $(params.image)
          - --exit-code=0
          - --no-progress
          - --scanners=vuln
          - --format=cyclonedx
          - --output=scan.cdx.json
        - name: trivy-display-report
          image: my.registry.com/aquasec/trivy:0.41.0     # input the location of your trivy scanner image
          env:
          - name: TRIVY_DB_REPOSITORY
            value: #@ data.values.params.trivy_db_repository
          - name: TRIVY_JAVA_DB_REPOSITORY
            value: #@ data.values.params.trivy_java_db_repository
          - name: TRIVY_CACHE_DIR
            value: /workspace/trivy-cache
          - name: XDG_CACHE_HOME
            value: /workspace/.cache
          - name: TMPDIR
            value: /workspace
          args:
          - image
          - $(params.image)
          - --skip-db-update
          - --skip-java-db-update
          - --exit-code=0
          - --scanners=vuln
          - --severity=HIGH
          - --no-progress
  ```

  Where:

  - `.metadata.name` is the name of your ClusterImageTemplate. Ensure that it does not conflict with the names of packaged templates. See [Author your supply chains](../scc/authoring-supply-chains.hbs.md#providing-your-own-templates).
  - `registry-server` is the registry server.
  - `registry-repository` is the registry repository.

1. Update the name of your ClusterImageTemplate, the registry fields for your registry, and the location of your Trivy scanner image by editing your `custom-ivs-template.yaml`.

1. Create the ClusterImageTemplate:

    ```console
    kubectl apply -f custom-ivs-template.yaml
    ```

1. After you create your custom ClusterImageTemplate, you can integrate it with SCST - Scan 2.0. See [Supply Chain Security Tools - Scan 2.0](./app-scanning-alpha.hbs.md#configuring-the-supply-chain).
