scst-scan/custom-ivs-samples.md, before:

# Configure your custom ImageVulnerabilityScan samples for Supply Chain Security Tools - Scan

This topic tells you which sample ImageVulnerabilityScans you can use with various scanners, and their associated secrets if required. 

## <a id="overview"></a> Overview

You can use the samples in this topic for the following scanners:

- Carbon Black
- Snyk
- Prisma
- Trivy

For information about integrating your own scanner, see [Integrate your own scanner](./app-scanning-alpha.hbs.md#integrate-your-own-scanner).

### <a id="use-samples"></a> Use custom ImageVulnerabilityScan samples

To use one of the samples:

1. Copy the sample YAML into a file named `custom-ivs.yaml`. Some scanners, such as Carbon Black, Snyk, and Prisma Scanner, require specific credentials that you must specifiy in the secret.
2. Obtain the one or more necessary images. For example, an image containing the scanner.
3. Edit these common fields of your ImageVulnerabilityScan:

   - `spec.image` is the image that you are scanning.
   - `scanResults.location` is the registry URL where results are uploaded. For example, `my.registry/scan-results`.
   - `serviceAccountNames` includes:
     - `scanner` is the service account that runs the scan. It must have read access to `image`.
     - `publisher` is the service account that uploads results. It must have write access to `scanResults.location`.
4. Complete any scanner specific changes specified in the sample.
5. You can either incorporate your custom ImageVulnerabilityScan into a [ClusterImageTemplate](./clusterimagetemplates.hbs.md) or run a standalone scan using:

  ```console
  kubectl apply -f custom-ivs.yaml -n DEV-NAMESPACE
  ```

  Where `DEV-NAMESPACE` is the name of the developer namespace where scanning occurs.

### <a id="ivs-cbc"></a>Configure a ImageVulnerabilityScan for Carbon Black

The Carbon Black CLI uses the `cbctl.yaml` config file. The `cbctl.yaml` config file must include your Carbon Black `cbctl-creds` secret and credentials.

See the [Carbon Black](https://developer.carbonblack.com/reference/carbon-black-cloud/container/latest/image-scanning-cli#configuration) documentation.

To mount the `cbctl-creds` as a workspace binding, use the following ImageVulnerabilityScan and secret configuration:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: cbctl-creds
stringData:
  cbctl: |
    cb_api_id: CB-API-ID
    cb_api_key: CB-API-KEY
    org_key: ORG-KEY
    saas_url: SAAS-URL
---
apiVersion: app-scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: ImageVulnerabilityScan
metadata:
  name: carbon-black-ivs
spec:
  image: harbor-repo.vmware.com/dockerhub-proxy-cache/library/nginx@sha256:6650513efd1d27c1f8a5351cbd33edf85cc7e0d9d0fcb4ffb23d8fa89b601ba8
  scanResults:
    location: registry/project/scan-results
  serviceAccountNames:
    publisher: publisher
    scanner: scanner
  workspace:
    bindings:
    - name: cbctl
      secret:
        secretName: cbctl-creds
        items:
          - key: cbctl
            path: .cbctl.yaml
  steps:
  - name: carbon-black
    image: CARBON-BLACK-SCANNER-IMAGE
    imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
    command:
    - bash
    args:
    - -c
    - cbctl --config /cbctl/.cbctl.yaml image scan --force=true $(params.image) -o
      cyclonedx > scan.cdx.xml
```

Where:

- `CB-API-ID` is the API ID obtained from VMware Carbon Black Cloud (CBC).
- `CB-API-KEY` is the API Key obtained from CBC.
- `ORG-KEY` is the Org Key for your CBC organization.
- `SAAS-URL` is the CBC Backend URL.

**Note**: The Carbon Black `cbctl-creds` secret is mounted as a workspace binding and the credentials are inserted into a `cbctl.yaml` config file that the Carbon Black CLI uses. See the [Carbon Black documentation](https://developer.carbonblack.com/reference/carbon-black-cloud/container/latest/image-scanning-cli#configuration).

### <a id="ivs-snyk"></a>Configure an ImageVulnerabilityScan for Snyk

To configure an ImageVulnerabilityScan for Snyk, use the following ImageVulnerabilityScan and secret configuration:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: snyk-token
stringData:
  snyk: |
    {"api": "SNYK-API-TOKEN"}
---
apiVersion: app-scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: ImageVulnerabilityScan
metadata:
  name: snyk-ivs
spec:
  image: harbor-repo.vmware.com/dockerhub-proxy-cache/library/nginx@sha256:6650513efd1d27c1f8a5351cbd33edf85cc7e0d9d0fcb4ffb23d8fa89b601ba8
  scanResults:
    location: registry/project/scan-results
  serviceAccountNames:
    publisher: publisher
    scanner: scanner
  workspace:
    bindings:
    - name: snyk
      secret:
        secretName: snyk-token
        items:
          - key: snyk
            path: configstore/snyk.json
  steps:
  - name: snyk
    image: SNYK-SCANNER-IMAGE
    env:
    - name: XDG_CONFIG_HOME
      value: /snyk
    command: ["snyk","container","test",$(params.image),"--json-file-output=scan.json"]
    onError: continue
  - name: snyk2spdx # You will need to create your own image. See explanation below.
    image: SNYK2SPDX-IMAGE
    command:
    ....
```

Where:

- `SNYK-API-TOKEN` is your Snyk API Token obtained from the [Snyk documentation](https://docs.snyk.io/snyk-cli/authenticate-the-cli-with-your-account).
- `SNYK-SCANNER-IMAGE` is the Snyk Scanner image used to run Snyk scans. See [Snyk documentation](https://github.com/snyk/snyk-images) for Snyk images.
- `SNYK2SPDX-IMAGE` is the image used to convert the Snyk CLI output `scan.json` in the `snyk` step to SPDX format and have its missing `DOCUMENT DESCRIBES` relation inserted. See the Snyk [snyk2spdx repository](https://github.com/snyk-tech-services/snyk2spdx).

> **Note** After detecting vulnerabilities, the Snyk image ends with Exit Code 1 and results in a failed scan task. A possible solution might be to ignore the step error by setting [onError](https://tekton.dev/docs/pipelines/tasks/#specifying-onerror-for-a-step) and handling the error in a subsequent step.

For information about setting up scanner credentials, see the [Snyk CLI documentation](https://docs.snyk.io/snyk-cli/commands/config).

### <a id="ivs-prisma"></a>Configure an ImageVulnerabilityScan for Prisma

To configure an ImageVulnerabilityScan for Prisma, use the following ImageVulnerabilityScan configuration:

1. Have a scanner image installed with the following dependencies:
     - [podman](https://podman.io/docs/installation)
     - [twistcli](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/prisma/prisma-cloud/prisma-cloud-admin-compute/tools/twistcli)
2. Using the yaml below, populate the placeholder fields with the appropriate values and save to a file `custom-ivs.yaml`:
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: prisma-auth
stringData:
  username: USERNAME
  password: PASSWORD
  address: ADDRESS
---
apiVersion: app-scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: ImageVulnerabilityScan
metadata:
  name: prisma-ivs
spec:
  image: harbor-repo.vmware.com/dockerhub-proxy-cache/library/nginx@sha256:6650513efd1d27c1f8a5351cbd33edf85cc7e0d9d0fcb4ffb23d8fa89b601ba8
  scanResults:
    location: registry/project/scan-results
  serviceAccountNames:
    publisher: publisher
    scanner: scanner
  steps:
  - name: prisma
    image: PRISMA-SCANNER-IMAGE
    imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
    workingDir: /workspace
    script: |
      #!/bin/bash
      podman pull $IMAGE
      twistcli images scan --podman-path /usr/bin/podman --address $ADDRESS --user $USER_NAME --password $PASSWORD $IMAGE --output-file ./scan-results/twist-scan.json --containerized
    env:
    - name: USER_NAME
      valueFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          key: username
          name: prisma-auth
          optional: false
    - name: PASSWORD
      valueFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          key: password
          name: prisma-auth
          optional: false
    - name: ADDRESS
      valueFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          key: address
          name: prisma-auth
          optional: false
    - name: IMAGE
      value: $(params.image)
  workspace: {}
```

Where:

- `USERNAME` is the Access Key from the Prisma Cloud account.
- `PASSWORD` is the Secret Key from the Prisma Cloud account.
- `ADDRESS` is the URL for Console from the Prisma Cloud account.
- `PRISMA-SCANNER-IMAGE` is the prisma scanner image with twistcli and podman from step 1.


**Note**: See the Prisma twistcli [docs](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/prisma/prisma-cloud/prisma-cloud-admin-compute/tools/twistcli_scan_images) for more information on CLI usage.
### <a id="ivs-trivy"></a>Configure an ImageVulnerabilityScan for Trivy

To configure an ImageVulnerabilityScan for Trivy, use the following ImageVulnerabilityScan configuration:

```yaml
apiVersion: app-scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: ImageVulnerabilityScan
metadata:
  name: trivy-ivs
spec:
  image: harbor-repo.vmware.com/dockerhub-proxy-cache/library/nginx@sha256:6650513efd1d27c1f8a5351cbd33edf85cc7e0d9d0fcb4ffb23d8fa89b601ba8
  scanResults:
    location: registry/project/scan-results
  serviceAccountNames:
    publisher: publisher
    scanner: scanner
  steps:
  - name: trivy
    image: TRIVY-SCANNER-IMAGE
    command: ["trivy"]
    args:
    - image
    - --format
    - cyclonedx
    - --output
    - $(params.scan-results-path)/scan.cdx
    - --scanners
    - vuln
    - $(params.image)
```

Where:

- `TRIVY-SCANNER-IMAGE` is the Trivy Scanner image used to run Trivy scans. For information about Trivy images, see [Trivy documentation](https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy).

Commit message:

Fix changes to be more concise and clear

scst-scan/custom-ivs-samples.md, after:

# Configure your custom ImageVulnerabilityScan samples for Supply Chain Security Tools - Scan

This topic tells you which sample ImageVulnerabilityScans you can use with various scanners, and their associated secrets if required. 

## <a id="overview"></a> Overview

You can use the samples in this topic for the following scanners:

- Carbon Black
- Snyk
- Prisma
- Trivy

For information about integrating your own scanner, see [Integrate your own scanner](./app-scanning-alpha.hbs.md#integrate-your-own-scanner).

### <a id="use-samples"></a> Use custom ImageVulnerabilityScan samples

To use one of the samples:

1. Copy the sample YAML into a file named `custom-ivs.yaml`. Some scanners, such as Carbon Black, Snyk, and Prisma Scanner, require specific credentials that you must specifiy in the secret.
2. Obtain the one or more necessary images. For example, an image containing the scanner.
3. Edit these common fields of your ImageVulnerabilityScan:

   - `spec.image` is the image that you are scanning.
   - `scanResults.location` is the registry URL where results are uploaded. For example, `my.registry/scan-results`.
   - `serviceAccountNames` includes:
     - `scanner` is the service account that runs the scan. It must have read access to `image`.
     - `publisher` is the service account that uploads results. It must have write access to `scanResults.location`.
4. Complete any scanner specific changes specified in the sample.
5. You can either incorporate your custom ImageVulnerabilityScan into a [ClusterImageTemplate](./clusterimagetemplates.hbs.md) or run a standalone scan using:

  ```console
  kubectl apply -f custom-ivs.yaml -n DEV-NAMESPACE
  ```

  Where `DEV-NAMESPACE` is the name of the developer namespace where scanning occurs.

### <a id="ivs-cbc"></a>Configure a ImageVulnerabilityScan for Carbon Black

To configure an ImageVulnerabilityScan for Carbon Black, use the following ImageVulnerabilityScan and secret configuration:

- The Carbon Black CLI can be configured with CarbonBlack `cbctl-creds` secret and credentials via the `~/.cbctl/cbctl.yaml` config file. See the [Carbon Black](https://developer.carbonblack.com/reference/carbon-black-cloud/container/latest/image-scanning-cli#configuration) documentation for more info on configuration.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: cbctl-creds
stringData:
  cbctl: |
    cb_api_id: CB-API-ID
    cb_api_key: CB-API-KEY
    org_key: ORG-KEY
    saas_url: SAAS-URL
---
apiVersion: app-scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: ImageVulnerabilityScan
metadata:
  name: carbon-black-ivs
spec:
  image: harbor-repo.vmware.com/dockerhub-proxy-cache/library/nginx@sha256:6650513efd1d27c1f8a5351cbd33edf85cc7e0d9d0fcb4ffb23d8fa89b601ba8
  scanResults:
    location: registry/project/scan-results
  serviceAccountNames:
    publisher: publisher
    scanner: scanner
  workspace:
    bindings:
    - name: cbctl
      secret:
        secretName: cbctl-creds
        items:
          - key: cbctl
            path: .cbctl.yaml
  steps:
  - name: carbon-black
    image: CARBON-BLACK-SCANNER-IMAGE
    imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
    command:
    - bash
    args:
    - -c
    - cbctl --config /cbctl/.cbctl.yaml image scan --force=true $(params.image) -o
      cyclonedx > scan.cdx.xml
```

Where:

- `CB-API-ID` is the API ID obtained from VMware Carbon Black Cloud (CBC).
- `CB-API-KEY` is the API Key obtained from CBC.
- `ORG-KEY` is the Org Key for your CBC organization.
- `SAAS-URL` is the CBC Backend URL.

**Note**: The Carbon Black `cbctl-creds` secret is mounted as a workspace binding and the credentials are inserted into a `cbctl.yaml` config file that the Carbon Black CLI uses.

### <a id="ivs-snyk"></a>Configure an ImageVulnerabilityScan for Snyk

To configure an ImageVulnerabilityScan for Snyk, use the following ImageVulnerabilityScan and secret configuration:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: snyk-token
stringData:
  snyk: |
    {"api": "SNYK-API-TOKEN"}
---
apiVersion: app-scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: ImageVulnerabilityScan
metadata:
  name: snyk-ivs
spec:
  image: harbor-repo.vmware.com/dockerhub-proxy-cache/library/nginx@sha256:6650513efd1d27c1f8a5351cbd33edf85cc7e0d9d0fcb4ffb23d8fa89b601ba8
  scanResults:
    location: registry/project/scan-results
  serviceAccountNames:
    publisher: publisher
    scanner: scanner
  workspace:
    bindings:
    - name: snyk
      secret:
        secretName: snyk-token
        items:
          - key: snyk
            path: configstore/snyk.json
  steps:
  - name: snyk
    image: SNYK-SCANNER-IMAGE
    env:
    - name: XDG_CONFIG_HOME
      value: /snyk
    command: ["snyk","container","test",$(params.image),"--json-file-output=scan.json"]
    onError: continue
  - name: snyk2spdx # You will need to create your own image. See explanation below.
    image: SNYK2SPDX-IMAGE
    command:
    ....
```

Where:

- `SNYK-API-TOKEN` is your Snyk API Token obtained from the [Snyk documentation](https://docs.snyk.io/snyk-cli/authenticate-the-cli-with-your-account).
- `SNYK-SCANNER-IMAGE` is the Snyk Scanner image used to run Snyk scans. See [Snyk documentation](https://github.com/snyk/snyk-images) for Snyk images.
- `SNYK2SPDX-IMAGE` is the image used to convert the Snyk CLI output `scan.json` in the `snyk` step to SPDX format and have its missing `DOCUMENT DESCRIBES` relation inserted. See the Snyk [snyk2spdx repository](https://github.com/snyk-tech-services/snyk2spdx).

> **Note** After detecting vulnerabilities, the Snyk image ends with Exit Code 1 and results in a failed scan task. A possible solution might be to ignore the step error by setting [onError](https://tekton.dev/docs/pipelines/tasks/#specifying-onerror-for-a-step) and handling the error in a subsequent step.

For information about setting up scanner credentials, see the [Snyk CLI documentation](https://docs.snyk.io/snyk-cli/commands/config).

### <a id="ivs-prisma"></a>Configure an ImageVulnerabilityScan for Prisma

To configure an ImageVulnerabilityScan for Prisma, use the following ImageVulnerabilityScan configuration:

- Install the following dependencies into the scanner image:
     - [podman](https://podman.io/docs/installation)
     - [twistcli](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/prisma/prisma-cloud/prisma-cloud-admin-compute/tools/twistcli)
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: prisma-auth
stringData:
  username: USERNAME
  password: PASSWORD
  address: ADDRESS
---
apiVersion: app-scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: ImageVulnerabilityScan
metadata:
  name: prisma-ivs
spec:
  image: harbor-repo.vmware.com/dockerhub-proxy-cache/library/nginx@sha256:6650513efd1d27c1f8a5351cbd33edf85cc7e0d9d0fcb4ffb23d8fa89b601ba8
  scanResults:
    location: registry/project/scan-results
  serviceAccountNames:
    publisher: publisher
    scanner: scanner
  steps:
  - name: prisma
    image: PRISMA-SCANNER-IMAGE
    imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
    workingDir: /workspace
    script: |
      #!/bin/bash
      podman pull $IMAGE
      twistcli images scan --podman-path /usr/bin/podman --address $ADDRESS --user $USER_NAME --password $PASSWORD $IMAGE --output-file ./scan-results/twist-scan.json --containerized
    env:
    - name: USER_NAME
      valueFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          key: username
          name: prisma-auth
          optional: false
    - name: PASSWORD
      valueFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          key: password
          name: prisma-auth
          optional: false
    - name: ADDRESS
      valueFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          key: address
          name: prisma-auth
          optional: false
    - name: IMAGE
      value: $(params.image)
  workspace: {}
```

Where:

- `USERNAME` is the Access Key from the Prisma Cloud account.
- `PASSWORD` is the Secret Key from the Prisma Cloud account.
- `ADDRESS` is the URL for Console from the Prisma Cloud account.
- `PRISMA-SCANNER-IMAGE` is the prisma scanner image with twistcli and podman from step 1.


**Note**: See the Prisma twistcli [docs](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/prisma/prisma-cloud/prisma-cloud-admin-compute/tools/twistcli_scan_images) for more information on CLI usage.
### <a id="ivs-trivy"></a>Configure an ImageVulnerabilityScan for Trivy

To configure an ImageVulnerabilityScan for Trivy, use the following ImageVulnerabilityScan configuration:

```yaml
apiVersion: app-scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: ImageVulnerabilityScan
metadata:
  name: trivy-ivs
spec:
  image: harbor-repo.vmware.com/dockerhub-proxy-cache/library/nginx@sha256:6650513efd1d27c1f8a5351cbd33edf85cc7e0d9d0fcb4ffb23d8fa89b601ba8
  scanResults:
    location: registry/project/scan-results
  serviceAccountNames:
    publisher: publisher
    scanner: scanner
  steps:
  - name: trivy
    image: TRIVY-SCANNER-IMAGE
    command: ["trivy"]
    args:
    - image
    - --format
    - cyclonedx
    - --output
    - $(params.scan-results-path)/scan.cdx
    - --scanners
    - vuln
    - $(params.image)
```

Where:

- `TRIVY-SCANNER-IMAGE` is the Trivy Scanner image used to run Trivy scans. For information about Trivy images, see [Trivy documentation](https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy).
