scst-scan/policies.hbs.md, before:

# Enforce compliance policy using Open Policy Agent

This topic describes how you can use Open Policy Agent to enforce compliance policy for Supply Chain Security Tools - Scan.

## <a id="writing-pol-temp"></a>Writing a policy template

The Scan Policy custom resource (CR) allows you to define a Rego file for policy
enforcement that you can reuse across image scan and source scan CRs.

The Scan Controller supports policy enforcement by using an Open Policy Agent
(OPA) engine with Rego files. This allows you to validate scan results for
company policy compliance and can prevent source code from being built or images
from being deployed.

## <a id="rego-file-contract"></a>Rego file contract

To define a Rego file for an image scan or source scan, you must comply with the
requirements defined for every Rego file for the policy verification to work.
For information about how to write Rego, see [Open Policy Agent
documentation](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/policy-language/).

- **Package main:** The Rego file must define a package in its body called `main`. The system looks for this package to verify the scan results compliance.

- **Input match:** The Rego file evaluates one vulnerability match at a time, iterating as many times as the Rego file finds vulnerabilities in the scan. The match structure is accessed in the `input.currentVulnerability` object inside the Rego file and has the [CycloneDX](https://cyclonedx.org/docs/1.3/) format.

- **deny rule:** The Rego file must define a `deny` rule inside its body. `deny` is a set of error messages that are returned to the user. Each rule you write adds to that set of error messages. If the conditions in the body of the `deny` statement are true then the user is handed an error message. If false, the vulnerability is allowed in the Source or Image scan.

## <a id="define-rego-file"></a>Define a Rego file for policy enforcement

Follow these steps to define a Rego file for policy enforcement that you can
reuse across image scan and source scan CRs that output in the CycloneDX XML
format.

>**Note** The Snyk Scanner outputs SPDX JSON. For an example of a ScanPolicy formatted for SPDX JSON output, see [Sample ScanPolicy for Snyk in SPDX JSON format](install-snyk-integration.md#snyk-scan-policy).

1. Create a scan policy with a Rego file. The following is an example scan policy resource:

    ```yaml
    ---
    apiVersion: scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1beta1
    kind: ScanPolicy
    metadata:
      name: scan-policy
      labels:
        app.kubernetes.io/part-of: enable-in-gui
    spec:
      regoFile: |
        package main

        # Accepted Values: "Critical", "High", "Medium", "Low", "Negligible", "UnknownSeverity"
        notAllowedSeverities := ["Critical", "High", "UnknownSeverity"]
        ignoreCves := []

        contains(array, elem) = true {
          array[_] = elem
        } else = false { true }

        isSafe(match) {
          severities := { e | e := match.ratings.rating.severity } | { e | e := match.ratings.rating[_].severity }
          some i
          fails := contains(notAllowedSeverities, severities[i])
          not fails
        }

        isSafe(match) {
          ignore := contains(ignoreCves, match.id)
          ignore
        }

        deny[msg] {
          comps := { e | e := input.bom.components.component } | { e | e := input.bom.components.component[_] }
          some i
          comp := comps[i]
          vulns := { e | e := comp.vulnerabilities.vulnerability } | { e | e := comp.vulnerabilities.vulnerability[_] }
          some j
          vuln := vulns[j]
          ratings := { e | e := vuln.ratings.rating.severity } | { e | e := vuln.ratings.rating[_].severity }
          not isSafe(vuln)
          msg = sprintf("CVE %s %s %s", [comp.name, vuln.id, ratings])
        }
    ```

    You can edit the following text boxes of the Rego file as part of the [CVE triage workflow](../scst-scan/triaging-and-remediating-cves.hbs.md#amend-scan-policy):

    - `notAllowedSeverities` contains the categories of CVEs that cause the SourceScan or ImageScan failing policy enforcement. The following example shows an `app-operator` blocking only `Critical`, `High` and `UnknownSeverity` CVEs.

      ```yaml
      ...
      spec:
        regoFile: |
          package main

          # Accepted Values: "Critical", "High", "Medium", "Low", "Negligible", "UnknownSeverity"
          notAllowedSeverities := ["Critical", "High", "UnknownSeverity"]
          ignoreCves := []
      ...
      ```

    - `ignoreCves` contains individual ignored CVEs when determining policy enforcement. In the following example, an `app-operator` ignores `CVE-2018-14643` and `GHSA-f2jv-r9rf-7988` if they are false positives. See [A Note on Vulnerability Scanners](overview.hbs.md#scst-scan-note).

      ```yaml
      ...
      spec:
        regoFile: |
          package main

          notAllowedSeverities := []
          ignoreCves := ["CVE-2018-14643", "GHSA-f2jv-r9rf-7988"]
      ...
      ```

2. Deploy the scan policy to the cluster:

    ```console
    kubectl apply -f <path_to_scan_policy>/<scan_policy_filename>.yaml -n <desired_namespace>
    ```

For information about how scan policies are used in the CVE triage workflow, see [Triaging and Remediating CVEs](../scst-scan/triaging-and-remediating-cves.hbs.md#amend-scan-policy).

## <a id="more-detail"></a>Further refine the Scan Policy for use

The scan policy earlier demonstrates how vulnerabilities are
ignored during a compliance check. It is not possible to audit why a
vulnerability is ignored. You might want to allow an exception, where a build
with a failing vulnerability is allowed to progress through a supply chain. You
can allow this exception for a certain period of time, requiring an expiration
date. Vulnerability Exploitability Exchange (VEX) documents are gaining
popularity to capture security advisory information pertaining to
vulnerabilities. You can use Rego for these use cases.

For example, the following scan policy includes an additional text box to
capture comments regarding why the scan ignores a vulnerability. The
`notAllowedSeverities` array remains an array of strings, but the `ignoreCves`
array updates from an array of strings to an array of objects. This causes a
change to the `contains` function, splitting it into separate functions for each
array.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1beta1
kind: ScanPolicy
metadata:
  name: scan-policy
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: enable-in-gui
spec:
  regoFile: |
    package main

    # Accepted Values: "Critical", "High", "Medium", "Low", "Negligible", "UnknownSeverity"
    notAllowedSeverities := ["Critical", "High", "UnknownSeverity"]

    # List of known vulnerabilities to ignore when deciding whether to fail compliance. Example:
    # ignoreCves := [
    #   {
    #     "id": "CVE-2018-14643",
    #     "detail": "Determined affected code is not in the execution path."
    #   }
    # ]
    ignoreCves := []

    containsSeverity(array, elem) = true {
      array[_] = elem
    } else = false { true }

    isSafe(match) {
      severities := { e | e := match.ratings.rating.severity } | { e | e := match.ratings.rating[_].severity }
      some i
      fails := containsSeverity(notAllowedSeverities, severities[i])
      not fails
    }

    containsCve(array, elem) = true {
      array[_].id = elem
    } else = false { true }

    isSafe(match) {
      ignore := containsCve(ignoreCves, match.id)
      ignore
    }

    deny[msg] {
      comps := { e | e := input.bom.components.component } | { e | e := input.bom.components.component[_] }
      some i
      comp := comps[i]
      vulns := { e | e := comp.vulnerabilities.vulnerability } | { e | e := comp.vulnerabilities.vulnerability[_] }
      some j
      vuln := vulns[j]
      ratings := { e | e := vuln.ratings.rating.severity } | { e | e := vuln.ratings.rating[_].severity }
      not isSafe(vuln)
      msg = sprintf("CVE %s %s %s", [comp.name, vuln.id, ratings])
    }
```

The following example includes an expiration text box and only allows the vulnerability to be ignored for a period of time:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1beta1
kind: ScanPolicy
metadata:
  name: scan-policy
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: enable-in-gui
spec:
  regoFile: |
    package main

    # Accepted Values: "Critical", "High", "Medium", "Low", "Negligible", "UnknownSeverity"
    notAllowedSeverities := ["Critical", "High", "UnknownSeverity"]

    # List of known vulnerabilities to ignore when deciding whether to fail compliance. Example:
    # ignoreCves := [
    #   {
    #     "id": "CVE-2018-14643",
    #     "detail": "Determined affected code is not in the execution path.",
    #     "expiration": "2022-Dec-31"
    #   }
    # ]
    ignoreCves := []

    containsSeverity(array, elem) = true {
      array[_] = elem
    } else = false { true }

    isSafe(match) {
      severities := { e | e := match.ratings.rating.severity } | { e | e := match.ratings.rating[_].severity }
      some i
      fails := containsSeverity(notAllowedSeverities, severities[i])
      not fails
    }

    containsCve(array, elem) = true {
      array[_].id = elem
      curr_time := time.now_ns()
      date_format := "2006-Jan-02"
      expire_time := time.parse_ns(date_format, array[_].expiration)
      curr_time < expire_time
    } else = false { true }

    isSafe(match) {
      ignore := containsCve(ignoreCves, match.id)
      ignore
    }

    deny[msg] {
      comps := { e | e := input.bom.components.component } | { e | e := input.bom.components.component[_] }
      some i
      comp := comps[i]
      vulns := { e | e := comp.vulnerabilities.vulnerability } | { e | e := comp.vulnerabilities.vulnerability[_] }
      some j
      vuln := vulns[j]
      ratings := { e | e := vuln.ratings.rating.severity } | { e | e := vuln.ratings.rating[_].severity }
      not isSafe(vuln)
      msg = sprintf("CVE %s %s %s", [comp.name, vuln.id, ratings])
    }
```

## <a id="troubleshoot-scan-policy-rego"></a>Troubleshooting Rego files (Scan Policy)

To troubleshoot or confirm that any modifications made to the rego file in the provided sample scan policy are functioning as intended, see [Troubleshooting Rego Files](./troubleshoot-rego.hbs.md).

## <a id="gui-view-scan-policy"></a>Enable Tanzu Application Platform GUI to view ScanPolicy Resource

For the Tanzu Application Platform GUI to view the ScanPolicy resource, it must have a matching `kubernetes-label-selector` with a `part-of` prefix.

The following example is portion of a ScanPolicy that is viewable by the Tanzu Application Platform GUI:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1beta1
kind: ScanPolicy
metadata:
  name: scan-policy
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: enable-in-gui
spec:
  regoFile: |
    ...
```

>**Note** Anything van be a value for the label. The Tanzu Application
>Platform GUI is looking for the existence of the `part-of` prefix string and
>doesn't match for anything else specific.

## <a id="deprecated-rego-file"></a> Deprecated Rego file Definition

Before Scan Controller v1.2.0, you must use the following format where the rego file differences are:

- The package name must be `package policies` instead of `package main`.
- The deny rule is a Boolean `isCompliant` instead of `deny[msg]`.
  - **isCompliant rule:** The Rego file must define inside its body an `isCompliant` rule. This must be a Boolean type containing the result whether the vulnerability violates the security policy or not. If `isCompliant` is `true`, the vulnerability is allowed in the Source or Image scan. Otherwise, `false` is considered. Any scan that finds at least one vulnerability that evaluates to `isCompliant=false` makes the `PolicySucceeded` condition set to false.

The following is an example scan policy resource:

```yaml
apiVersion: scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: ScanPolicy
metadata:
  name: v1alpha1-scan-policy
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: enable-in-gui
spec:
  regoFile: |
    package policies

    default isCompliant = false

    ignoreSeverities := ["Critical", "High"]

    contains(array, elem) = true {
      array[_] = elem
    } else = false { true }

    isCompliant {
      ignore := contains(ignoreSeverities, input.currentVulnerability.Ratings.Rating[_].Severity)
      ignore
    }
```

Commit message:

[TAAP-1399] Change Tanzu Application Platform GUI to Tanzu Developer Portal

scst-scan/policies.hbs.md, after:

# Enforce compliance policy using Open Policy Agent

This topic describes how you can use Open Policy Agent to enforce compliance policy for Supply Chain Security Tools - Scan.

## <a id="writing-pol-temp"></a>Writing a policy template

The Scan Policy custom resource (CR) allows you to define a Rego file for policy
enforcement that you can reuse across image scan and source scan CRs.

The Scan Controller supports policy enforcement by using an Open Policy Agent
(OPA) engine with Rego files. This allows you to validate scan results for
company policy compliance and can prevent source code from being built or images
from being deployed.

## <a id="rego-file-contract"></a>Rego file contract

To define a Rego file for an image scan or source scan, you must comply with the
requirements defined for every Rego file for the policy verification to work.
For information about how to write Rego, see [Open Policy Agent
documentation](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/policy-language/).

- **Package main:** The Rego file must define a package in its body called `main`. The system looks for this package to verify the scan results compliance.

- **Input match:** The Rego file evaluates one vulnerability match at a time, iterating as many times as the Rego file finds vulnerabilities in the scan. The match structure is accessed in the `input.currentVulnerability` object inside the Rego file and has the [CycloneDX](https://cyclonedx.org/docs/1.3/) format.

- **deny rule:** The Rego file must define a `deny` rule inside its body. `deny` is a set of error messages that are returned to the user. Each rule you write adds to that set of error messages. If the conditions in the body of the `deny` statement are true then the user is handed an error message. If false, the vulnerability is allowed in the Source or Image scan.

## <a id="define-rego-file"></a>Define a Rego file for policy enforcement

Follow these steps to define a Rego file for policy enforcement that you can
reuse across image scan and source scan CRs that output in the CycloneDX XML
format.

>**Note** The Snyk Scanner outputs SPDX JSON. For an example of a ScanPolicy formatted for SPDX JSON output, see [Sample ScanPolicy for Snyk in SPDX JSON format](install-snyk-integration.md#snyk-scan-policy).

1. Create a scan policy with a Rego file. The following is an example scan policy resource:

    ```yaml
    ---
    apiVersion: scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1beta1
    kind: ScanPolicy
    metadata:
      name: scan-policy
      labels:
        app.kubernetes.io/part-of: enable-in-gui
    spec:
      regoFile: |
        package main

        # Accepted Values: "Critical", "High", "Medium", "Low", "Negligible", "UnknownSeverity"
        notAllowedSeverities := ["Critical", "High", "UnknownSeverity"]
        ignoreCves := []

        contains(array, elem) = true {
          array[_] = elem
        } else = false { true }

        isSafe(match) {
          severities := { e | e := match.ratings.rating.severity } | { e | e := match.ratings.rating[_].severity }
          some i
          fails := contains(notAllowedSeverities, severities[i])
          not fails
        }

        isSafe(match) {
          ignore := contains(ignoreCves, match.id)
          ignore
        }

        deny[msg] {
          comps := { e | e := input.bom.components.component } | { e | e := input.bom.components.component[_] }
          some i
          comp := comps[i]
          vulns := { e | e := comp.vulnerabilities.vulnerability } | { e | e := comp.vulnerabilities.vulnerability[_] }
          some j
          vuln := vulns[j]
          ratings := { e | e := vuln.ratings.rating.severity } | { e | e := vuln.ratings.rating[_].severity }
          not isSafe(vuln)
          msg = sprintf("CVE %s %s %s", [comp.name, vuln.id, ratings])
        }
    ```

    You can edit the following text boxes of the Rego file as part of the [CVE triage workflow](../scst-scan/triaging-and-remediating-cves.hbs.md#amend-scan-policy):

    - `notAllowedSeverities` contains the categories of CVEs that cause the SourceScan or ImageScan failing policy enforcement. The following example shows an `app-operator` blocking only `Critical`, `High` and `UnknownSeverity` CVEs.

      ```yaml
      ...
      spec:
        regoFile: |
          package main

          # Accepted Values: "Critical", "High", "Medium", "Low", "Negligible", "UnknownSeverity"
          notAllowedSeverities := ["Critical", "High", "UnknownSeverity"]
          ignoreCves := []
      ...
      ```

    - `ignoreCves` contains individual ignored CVEs when determining policy enforcement. In the following example, an `app-operator` ignores `CVE-2018-14643` and `GHSA-f2jv-r9rf-7988` if they are false positives. See [A Note on Vulnerability Scanners](overview.hbs.md#scst-scan-note).

      ```yaml
      ...
      spec:
        regoFile: |
          package main

          notAllowedSeverities := []
          ignoreCves := ["CVE-2018-14643", "GHSA-f2jv-r9rf-7988"]
      ...
      ```

2. Deploy the scan policy to the cluster:

    ```console
    kubectl apply -f <path_to_scan_policy>/<scan_policy_filename>.yaml -n <desired_namespace>
    ```

For information about how scan policies are used in the CVE triage workflow, see [Triaging and Remediating CVEs](../scst-scan/triaging-and-remediating-cves.hbs.md#amend-scan-policy).

## <a id="more-detail"></a>Further refine the Scan Policy for use

The scan policy earlier demonstrates how vulnerabilities are
ignored during a compliance check. It is not possible to audit why a
vulnerability is ignored. You might want to allow an exception, where a build
with a failing vulnerability is allowed to progress through a supply chain. You
can allow this exception for a certain period of time, requiring an expiration
date. Vulnerability Exploitability Exchange (VEX) documents are gaining
popularity to capture security advisory information pertaining to
vulnerabilities. You can use Rego for these use cases.

For example, the following scan policy includes an additional text box to
capture comments regarding why the scan ignores a vulnerability. The
`notAllowedSeverities` array remains an array of strings, but the `ignoreCves`
array updates from an array of strings to an array of objects. This causes a
change to the `contains` function, splitting it into separate functions for each
array.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1beta1
kind: ScanPolicy
metadata:
  name: scan-policy
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: enable-in-gui
spec:
  regoFile: |
    package main

    # Accepted Values: "Critical", "High", "Medium", "Low", "Negligible", "UnknownSeverity"
    notAllowedSeverities := ["Critical", "High", "UnknownSeverity"]

    # List of known vulnerabilities to ignore when deciding whether to fail compliance. Example:
    # ignoreCves := [
    #   {
    #     "id": "CVE-2018-14643",
    #     "detail": "Determined affected code is not in the execution path."
    #   }
    # ]
    ignoreCves := []

    containsSeverity(array, elem) = true {
      array[_] = elem
    } else = false { true }

    isSafe(match) {
      severities := { e | e := match.ratings.rating.severity } | { e | e := match.ratings.rating[_].severity }
      some i
      fails := containsSeverity(notAllowedSeverities, severities[i])
      not fails
    }

    containsCve(array, elem) = true {
      array[_].id = elem
    } else = false { true }

    isSafe(match) {
      ignore := containsCve(ignoreCves, match.id)
      ignore
    }

    deny[msg] {
      comps := { e | e := input.bom.components.component } | { e | e := input.bom.components.component[_] }
      some i
      comp := comps[i]
      vulns := { e | e := comp.vulnerabilities.vulnerability } | { e | e := comp.vulnerabilities.vulnerability[_] }
      some j
      vuln := vulns[j]
      ratings := { e | e := vuln.ratings.rating.severity } | { e | e := vuln.ratings.rating[_].severity }
      not isSafe(vuln)
      msg = sprintf("CVE %s %s %s", [comp.name, vuln.id, ratings])
    }
```

The following example includes an expiration text box and only allows the vulnerability to be ignored for a period of time:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1beta1
kind: ScanPolicy
metadata:
  name: scan-policy
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: enable-in-gui
spec:
  regoFile: |
    package main

    # Accepted Values: "Critical", "High", "Medium", "Low", "Negligible", "UnknownSeverity"
    notAllowedSeverities := ["Critical", "High", "UnknownSeverity"]

    # List of known vulnerabilities to ignore when deciding whether to fail compliance. Example:
    # ignoreCves := [
    #   {
    #     "id": "CVE-2018-14643",
    #     "detail": "Determined affected code is not in the execution path.",
    #     "expiration": "2022-Dec-31"
    #   }
    # ]
    ignoreCves := []

    containsSeverity(array, elem) = true {
      array[_] = elem
    } else = false { true }

    isSafe(match) {
      severities := { e | e := match.ratings.rating.severity } | { e | e := match.ratings.rating[_].severity }
      some i
      fails := containsSeverity(notAllowedSeverities, severities[i])
      not fails
    }

    containsCve(array, elem) = true {
      array[_].id = elem
      curr_time := time.now_ns()
      date_format := "2006-Jan-02"
      expire_time := time.parse_ns(date_format, array[_].expiration)
      curr_time < expire_time
    } else = false { true }

    isSafe(match) {
      ignore := containsCve(ignoreCves, match.id)
      ignore
    }

    deny[msg] {
      comps := { e | e := input.bom.components.component } | { e | e := input.bom.components.component[_] }
      some i
      comp := comps[i]
      vulns := { e | e := comp.vulnerabilities.vulnerability } | { e | e := comp.vulnerabilities.vulnerability[_] }
      some j
      vuln := vulns[j]
      ratings := { e | e := vuln.ratings.rating.severity } | { e | e := vuln.ratings.rating[_].severity }
      not isSafe(vuln)
      msg = sprintf("CVE %s %s %s", [comp.name, vuln.id, ratings])
    }
```

## <a id="troubleshoot-scan-policy-rego"></a>Troubleshooting Rego files (Scan Policy)

To troubleshoot or confirm that any modifications made to the rego file in the provided sample scan policy are functioning as intended, see [Troubleshooting Rego Files](./troubleshoot-rego.hbs.md).

## <a id="gui-view-scan-policy"></a>Enable Tanzu Developer Portal to view ScanPolicy Resource

For the Tanzu Developer Portal to view the ScanPolicy resource, it must have a matching `kubernetes-label-selector` with a `part-of` prefix.

The following example is portion of a ScanPolicy that is viewable by the Tanzu Developer Portal:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1beta1
kind: ScanPolicy
metadata:
  name: scan-policy
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: enable-in-gui
spec:
  regoFile: |
    ...
```

>**Note** Anything van be a value for the label. The Tanzu Application
>Platform GUI is looking for the existence of the `part-of` prefix string and
>doesn't match for anything else specific.

## <a id="deprecated-rego-file"></a> Deprecated Rego file Definition

Before Scan Controller v1.2.0, you must use the following format where the rego file differences are:

- The package name must be `package policies` instead of `package main`.
- The deny rule is a Boolean `isCompliant` instead of `deny[msg]`.
  - **isCompliant rule:** The Rego file must define inside its body an `isCompliant` rule. This must be a Boolean type containing the result whether the vulnerability violates the security policy or not. If `isCompliant` is `true`, the vulnerability is allowed in the Source or Image scan. Otherwise, `false` is considered. Any scan that finds at least one vulnerability that evaluates to `isCompliant=false` makes the `PolicySucceeded` condition set to false.

The following is an example scan policy resource:

```yaml
apiVersion: scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: ScanPolicy
metadata:
  name: v1alpha1-scan-policy
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: enable-in-gui
spec:
  regoFile: |
    package policies

    default isCompliant = false

    ignoreSeverities := ["Critical", "High"]

    contains(array, elem) = true {
      array[_] = elem
    } else = false { true }

    isCompliant {
      ignore := contains(ignoreSeverities, input.currentVulnerability.Ratings.Rating[_].Severity)
      ignore
    }
```
