scst-scan/scanner-matrix.hbs.md, before:

# Supported Scanner Matrix for Supply Chain Security Tools - Scan

This topic contains limits observed with scanners which are provided with Tanzu
Application Platform Supply Chain Security Tools. There might be more limits
which are not mentioned in the following table.

| Grype |  |
|--------|-----------|
|  .Net |  Grype uses .deps.json for finding dependencies. This file is created after compilation of a .Net project making source scanning unable to find dependencies. However the vulnerabilities are still found during the image scan after the compilation, when the application is packaged as images. |
| Java | No network calls are performed to fetch dependencies. For Java using Gradle, dependency lock files are not guaranteed, so Grype uses dependencies present in the built binaries, such as .jar or .war files. Because VMware discourages committing binaries to source code repositories, Grype fails to find vulnerabilities during a source scan. The vulnerabilities are still found during the image scan after the binaries are built and packaged as images. |

Commit message:

Add more description impact/next for supported scanner matrix

scst-scan/scanner-matrix.hbs.md, after:

# Supported Scanner Matrix for Supply Chain Security Tools - Scan

This topic contains limits observed with scanners which are provided with Tanzu
Application Platform Supply Chain Security Tools. There might be more limits
which are not mentioned in the following table.

| Grype |  | |
|--------|-----------|---|
|  .Net | Source Scans for .Net workloads don't show any results in the TAPGUI nor the CLI, this is because Grype uses .deps.json for finding dependencies. This file is created after compilation of a .Net project making source scanning unable to find dependencies. | Vulnerabilities are still found during the image scan step, since the application is already compiled and shipped into an image. You could also [Modifying an Out of the Box Supply Chain](../scc/authoring-supply-chains.hbs.md#modify-sc) to skip the SourceScan step, or [Implement your own scanner](/scst-scan/create-scan-template.hbs.md) to use a different one that supports .Net for source scans. |
| Java | No network calls are performed to fetch dependencies. For Java using Gradle, dependency lock files are not guaranteed, so Grype uses dependencies present in the built binaries, such as .jar or .war files. Because VMware discourages committing binaries to source code repositories, Grype fails to find vulnerabilities during a source scan. | Vulnerabilities are still found during the image scan step, since the application is already compiled and shipped into an image. You could also [Modifying an Out of the Box Supply Chain](../scc/authoring-supply-chains.hbs.md#modify-sc) to skip the SourceScan step, or [Implement your own scanner](/scst-scan/create-scan-template.hbs.md) to use a different one that supports Java for source scans. |
