cert-manager/about.hbs.md, before:

# cert-manager

cert-manager adds certificates and certificate issuers as resource types to Kubernetes clusters. 
It also helps you to obtain, renew, and use those certificates. 
For more information about cert-manager, see [cert-manager documentation](https://cert-manager.io/docs).

The cert-manager package allows you to, optionally, configure a number of `ClusterIssuer`.
When you install Tanzu Application Platform by using profiles,
a self-signed `ClusterIssuer` is included by default.

As of `cert-manager.tanzu.vmware.com/2.0.0`, versioning departs from the upstream, open-source project's
version. The contained cert-manager version is reflected in `Package.spec.includedSoftware`. You can
identify the version of cert-manager as follows:

```shell
kubectl get package -n tap-install cert-manager.tanzu.vmware.com.2.0.0 -ojsonpath='{.spec.includedSoftware}' | jq
[
 {
   "description": "X.509 certificate management for Kubernetes and OpenShift",
   "displayName": "cert-manager",
   "version": "1.9.1"
 }
]
```

Commit message:

Warn about failing ACME HTTP01 challenges and provide workarounds
See: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iu6_Q_YL8MROmp02RkUYlSrmScQPff0VKmaJyu82UTA/edit#

[#185040812]

Signed-off-by: Max Brauer <mbrauer@vmware.com>

cert-manager/about.hbs.md, after:

# cert-manager

cert-manager adds certificates and certificate issuers as resource types to
Kubernetes clusters. It also helps you to obtain, renew, and use those
certificates. For more information about cert-manager, see [cert-manager
documentation](https://cert-manager.io/docs).

The cert-manager package allows you to, optionally, configure a number of
`ClusterIssuer`. When you install Tanzu Application Platform by using profiles,
a self-signed `ClusterIssuer` is included by default.

As of `cert-manager.tanzu.vmware.com/2.0.0`, versioning departs from the
upstream, open-source project's version. The contained cert-manager version is
reflected in `Package.spec.includedSoftware`. You can identify the version of
cert-manager as follows:

```shell
kubectl get package -n tap-install cert-manager.tanzu.vmware.com.2.0.0 -ojsonpath='{.spec.includedSoftware}' | jq
[
 {
   "description": "X.509 certificate management for Kubernetes and OpenShift",
   "displayName": "cert-manager",
   "version": "1.9.1"
 }
]
```

> **Caution** _ACME HTTP01_ challenges can fail under certain conditions. See
> the [ACME challenges](./acme-challenges.hbs.md) brief for details.
