vscode-extension/using-the-extension.hbs.md, before:

# Use Tanzu Developer Tools for VS Code

Ensure that the project you want to use the extension with has the required files specified in
[Get started with Tanzu Developer Tools for Visual Studio Code](../vscode-extension/getting-started.hbs.md).

The extension requires only one Tiltfile and one `workload.yaml` per project.
The `workload.yaml` must be a single-document YAML file, not a multidocument YAML file.

## <a id="multiple-projects"></a> Configure for multiple projects in the workspace

When working with multiple projects in a single workspace, you can configure the extension settings
on a per-project basis by using the drop-down menu in **Settings**.

![The VS Code interface showing Tanzu Extension selected in the settings. The Project drop-down menu is expanded to show both projects in the current workspace.](../images/vscode-multiple-projects.png)

## <a id="apply-workload"></a> Apply a workload

The extension enables you to apply workloads on your Kubernetes cluster that has
Tanzu Application Platform.

To apply a workload:

1. Right-click anywhere in the VS Code project explorer or open the Command Palette by pressing ⇧⌘P
   (Ctrl+Shift+P on Windows).

2. Run `Tanzu: Apply Workload`.

3. If there are multiple projects with workloads, select the workload to apply.

   ![Apply Workload menu open showing workloads available to apply.](../images/vscode-applyworkload3.png)

   A notification appears showing that the workload was applied.

   ![Apply Workload notification showing workload has been applied.](../images/vscode-applyworkload4.png)

   A new workload appears on the Tanzu Workloads panel.

   ![Workload on Tanzu Workloads showing details for tanzu-java-web-app.](../images/vscode-panel-workload-unknown.png)

   The workload panel shows the workloads running in the namespace that is defined in the current
   Kubernetes context.

4. (Optional) See the context and namespace currently configured by running:

   ```console
   kubectl config get-contexts
   ```

5. (Optional) Set a namespace for the current context by running:

   ```console
   kubectl config set-context --current --namespace=YOUR-NAMESPACE
   ```

   After the workload is deployed, the status on the Tanzu Workloads panel changes to `Ready`.

   ![Workload ready on Tanzu Workloads. It shows details for tanzu-java-web-app.](../images/vscode-panel-workload-ready.png)

## <a id="debugging-on-clust"></a> Debugging on the cluster

The extension enables you to debug your application on your Kubernetes cluster that has
Tanzu Application Platform.

Debugging requires a `workload.yaml` file in your project.
For information about creating a `workload.yaml` file, see
[Get Started with Tanzu Developer Tools for VS Code](../vscode-extension/getting-started.hbs.md#set-up-tanzu-dev-tools).

The developer sandbox experience enables developers to Live Update their code, and simultaneously
debug the updated code, without having to deactivate Live Update when debugging.

### <a id="start-debugging"></a> Start debugging on the cluster

To start debugging on the cluster:

1. Add a [breakpoint](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/debugging#_breakpoints) in your code.
2. Right-click anywhere in the VS Code project explorer or open the Command Palette by pressing ⇧⌘P
   (Ctrl+Shift+P on Windows).
3. Click **Tanzu: Java Debug Workload** from either menu.

### <a id="stop-debugging"></a> Stop Debugging on the cluster

To stop debugging on the cluster, you can click the stop button in the Debug overlay.

  ![The VS Code interface close-up on the debug overlay showing the stop rectangle button and pointer description.](../images/vscode-stopdebug1.png)

Alternatively, you can press ⌘+J (Ctrl+J on Windows) to open the panel and then click the trash can
button for the debug task running in the panel.

  ![The VS Code interface close-up on the tasks panel showing the delete trash can button.](../images/vscode-stopdebug2.png)

### <a id="microservices-debug"></a> Debug apps in a microservice repository

To debug multiple apps in a microservice repository:

1. Add each app folder as a workspace folder. For instructions, see the
   [Visual Studio Code documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/multi-root-workspaces#_adding-folders).

2. Update the `tanzu.debugPort` setting so that it does not conflict with other debugging sessions.
   For how to update individual workspace folder settings, see the
   [Visual Studio Code documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/multi-root-workspaces#_settings).

## <a id="live-update"></a> Live Update

With the use of Live Update facilitated by [Tilt](https://docs.tilt.dev/), the extension enables you
to deploy your workload once, save changes to the code, and see those changes reflected in the
workload running on the cluster within seconds.

Live Update requires a `workload.yaml` file and a Tiltfile in your project.
For information about how to create a `workload.yaml` and a Tiltfile, see
[Get Started with Tanzu Developer Tools for VS Code](../vscode-extension/getting-started.hbs.md#set-up-tanzu-dev-tools).

The developer sandbox experience enables developers to Live Update their code, and simultaneously
debug the updated code, without having to deactivate Live Update when debugging.

### <a id="start-live-update"></a> Start Live Update

You can start Live Update by right-clicking anywhere in the VS Code project explorer and then clicking
**Tanzu: Live Update Start** in the pop-up menu.

![The VS Code interface showing the Explorer tab with the Tiltfile file right-click menu open and the Tanzu: Live Update Start option highlighted.](../images/vscode-startliveupdate1.png)

Alternatively, you can press `⇧⌘P` to open the Command Palette and then run the
`Tanzu: Live Update Start` command.

![Command palette open showing text Tanzu: Live Update Start.](../images/vscode-startliveupdate2.png)

### <a id="stop-live-update"></a> Stop Live Update

When Live Update stops, your application continues to run on the cluster, but the changes you made
and saved in your editor are not present in your running application unless you redeploy your
application to the cluster.

To stop Live Update, click the trash can button in the terminal pane to stop the Live Update process.

![The VS Code interface showing the terminal window with the pointer on the trash can button.](../images/vscode-stopliveupdate.png)

### <a id="disable-live-update"></a> Deactivate Live Update

You can remove the Live Update capability from your application entirely.
You might find this option useful in a troubleshooting scenario.
Deactivating Live Update redeploys your workload to the cluster and removes the Live Update capability.

To deactivate Live Update:

1. Press ⇧⌘P (Ctrl+Shift+P on Windows) to open the Command Palette.
2. Run `Tanzu: Live Update Disable`.

   ![Command palette open showing text Tanzu: Live Update Disable.](../images/vscode-liveupdatedisable.png)

3. Type the name of the workload for which you want to deactivate Live Update.

### <a id="live-update-status"></a> Live Update status

The current status of Live Update is visible on the right side of the status bar at the bottom of
the VS Code window.

![The VS Code interface showing the Tanzu Live Update Status section of the Status bar. The pop-up menu is open.](../images/vscode-liveupdatestatus1.png)

The Live Update status bar entry shows the following states:

- Live Update Stopped
- Live Update Starting…
- Live Update Running

To hide the Live Update status bar entry, right-click it and then click
**Hide 'Tanzu Developer Tools (Extension)'**.

![The VS Code interface showing the Tanzu Live Update Status section of the Status bar with the right-click menu open and the Hide Tanzu Developer Tools (Extension) option highlighted.](../images/vscode-liveupdatestatus2.png)

### <a id="microservices-live-update"></a> Live Update apps in a microservices repository

To Live Update multiple apps in a microservice repository:

1. Add each app folder as a workspace folder. For instructions, see the
   [Visual Studio Code documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/multi-root-workspaces#_adding-folders).

2. Ensure that a port is available to port-forward the Knative service.
   For example, you might have this in your Tiltfile:

   ```bazel
   k8s_resource('tanzu-java-web-app', port_forwards=["NUMBER:8080"],
               extra_pod_selectors=[{'carto.run/workload-name': 'tanzu-java-web-app', 'app.kubernetes.io/component': 'run'}])
   ```

   Where `NUMBER` is the port you choose. For example, `port_forwards=["9999:8080"]`.

## <a id="delete-workload"></a> Delete a workload

The extension enables you to delete workloads on your Kubernetes cluster that has
Tanzu Application Platform.

To delete a workload:

1. Right-click anywhere in the VS Code project explorer or open the Command Palette by pressing ⇧⌘P
   (Ctrl+Shift+P on Windows).

2. Run `Tanzu: Delete Workload`.

3. Select the workload to delete.

   ![Delete Workload menu open showing workloads available to delete.](../images/vscode-deleteworkload3.png)

   If the **Tanzu: Confirm Delete** setting is enabled, a message appears that prompts you to delete
   the workload and not warn again, delete the workload, or cancel.

   ![Delete Confirmation Notification showing delete options.](../images/vscode-deleteworkload4.png)

   A notification appears showing that the workload was deleted.

   ![Delete Workload Notification showing workload has been deleted.](../images/vscode-deleteworkload5.png)

## <a id="switch-namespace"></a> Switch namespaces

To switch the namespace where you created the workload:

1. Go to **Code** > **Preferences** > **Settings**.
1. Expand the **Extensions** section of the settings and click **Tanzu**.
1. In the **Namespace** option, add the namespace you want to deploy to. This is the `default`
   namespace by default.

![The VS Code settings scrolled to the Tanzu section within the Extensions section.](../images/vscode-switchnamespace1.png)

## <a id="workload-panel"></a> Tanzu Workloads panel

The current state of the workloads is visible on the Tanzu Workloads panel in the bottom left corner
of the VS Code window. The panel shows the current status of each workload, namespace, and cluster.
It also shows whether Live Update and Debug is running, stopped, or deactivated.

The Tanzu Workloads panel uses the cluster and namespace specified in the current kubectl context.

1. View the current context and namespace by running:

   ```console
   kubectl config get-contexts
   ```

2. Set a namespace for the current context by running:

   ```console
   kubectl config set-context --current --namespace=YOUR-NAMESPACE
   ```

   ![VS Code Workload Panel showing the Terminal log.](../images/vscode-panel-live-update-running.png)

## <a id="mono-repo"></a> Working with Microservices in a Monorepo

A monorepo is single Git repository that contains multiple workloads.
Each individual workload is placed in a subfolder of the main repository.

You can find an example of this in [Application Accelerator](../application-accelerator/about-application-accelerator.hbs.md).
The relevant accelerator is called Spring SMTP Gateway, and you can obtain its source code as an
accelerator or directly from the
[application-accelerator-samples](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples/tree/tap-1.3.x/spring-smtp-gateway)
GitHub repository.

This project exemplifies a typical layout:

- `MONO-REPO-ROOT/`
  - `pom.xml` (parent pom)
  - `microservice-app-1/`
    - `pom.xml`
    - `mvnw` (and other mvn-related files for building the workload)
    - `Tiltfile` (supports Live Update)
    - `config`
      - `workload.yaml` (supports deploying and debugging from IntelliJ)
    - `src/` (contains source code for this microservice)
  - `microservice-app-2/`
    - ...similar layout

### <a id="rec-struct"></a> Recommended structure: Microservices that can be built independently

In this example, each of the microservices can be built independently of one another.
Each subfolder contains everything needed to build that workload.

This is reflected in the `source` section of `workload.yaml` by using the `subPath` attribute:

```yaml
apiVersion: carto.run/v1alpha1
kind: Workload
metadata:
  name: microservice-app-1
  ...
spec:
  source:
    git:
      ref:
        branch: main
      url: https://github.com/kdvolder/sample-mono-repo.git
    subPath: microservice-app-1 # build only this
  ...
```

For setting up your own repositories, it's best practice to set up a monorepo so that each
microservice can be built completely independently.

To work with these monorepos:

- Import the monorepo as a project into VSCode.
- Interact with each of the subfolders in the same way you would a project containing a single workload.

### <a id="alt-struct"></a> Alternative structure: Services with build-time interdependencies

Some monorepos do not have submodules that can be independently built.
Instead the `pom.xml` files of the submodules are set up to have some build-time interdependencies.
For example:

- A submodule `pom.xml` can reference the parent `pom.xml` as a common place for
  centralized dependency management.
- A microservice submodule can reference another, as a maven dependency.
- Several microservice submodules can reference one or more shared libary modules.

For these projects, make these adjustments:

1. Make `workload.yaml` point to the repository root, not a subfolder.
   Because submodules have dependencies on code outside of their own subfolder, all source code
   from the repository must be supplied to the workload builder.

2. Make `workload.yaml` specify additional buildpack arguments through environment variables.
   They differentiate the submodule that the build is targeting.

   Both of these `workload.yaml` changes are in the following example:

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: carto.run/v1alpha1
   kind: Workload
   metadata:
   name: fortune-ui
   labels:
      apps.tanzu.vmware.com/workload-type: web
      app.kubernetes.io/part-of: fortune-ui
   spec:
   build:
      env:
         - name: BP_MAVEN_BUILD_ARGUMENTS
         value: package -pl fortune-teller-ui -am # indicate which module to build.
         - name: BP_MAVEN_BUILT_MODULE
         value: fortune-teller-ui # indicate where to find the built artefact to deploy.
   source:
      git:
         url: https://github.com/my-user/fortune-teller # repo root
         ref:
         branch: main
   ```

   For more information about these and other `BP_xxx` buildpack parameters, see the
   [Buildpack Documentation](https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/maven/blob/main/README.md).

3. Make the local path preference for each subfolder point to the path of the repository root
   Because submodules have dependencies on code outside of their own subfolder, all source code
   from the repository must be supplied to the workload builder.

   ![VS Code Monorepo Preferences in Settings. The folder drop-down menu is circled in red. The Local Path text box is also circled in red.](../images/vscode-monorepo-preferences.png)

## <a id="log-setting"></a> Changing logging verbosity

The Tanzu Language Server saves logs to `~/tanzu-langserver.log`. You can change the log verbosity in **Preferences** -> **Extensions** -> **Tanzu Developer Tools** -> **Log Verbosity**.

Commit message:

vscode: add workload association docs

vscode-extension/using-the-extension.hbs.md, after:

# Use Tanzu Developer Tools for VS Code

Ensure that the project you want to use the extension with has the required files specified in
[Get started with Tanzu Developer Tools for Visual Studio Code](../vscode-extension/getting-started.hbs.md).

The extension requires only one Tiltfile and one `workload.yaml` per project.
The `workload.yaml` must be a single-document YAML file, not a multidocument YAML file.

## <a id="multiple-projects"></a> Configure for multiple projects in the workspace

When working with multiple projects in a single workspace, you can configure the extension settings
on a per-project basis by using the drop-down menu in **Settings**.

![The VS Code interface showing Tanzu Extension selected in the settings. The Project drop-down menu is expanded to show both projects in the current workspace.](../images/vscode-multiple-projects.png)

## <a id="apply-workload"></a> Apply a workload

The extension enables you to apply workloads on your Kubernetes cluster that has
Tanzu Application Platform.

To apply a workload:

1. Right-click anywhere in the VS Code project explorer or open the Command Palette by pressing ⇧⌘P
   (Ctrl+Shift+P on Windows).

2. Run `Tanzu: Apply Workload`.

3. If there are multiple projects with workloads, select the workload to apply.

   ![Apply Workload menu open showing workloads available to apply.](../images/vscode-applyworkload3.png)

   A notification appears showing that the workload was applied.

   ![Apply Workload notification showing workload has been applied.](../images/vscode-applyworkload4.png)

   A new workload appears on the Tanzu Workloads panel.

   ![Workload on Tanzu Workloads showing details for tanzu-java-web-app.](../images/vscode-panel-workload-unknown.png)

   The workload panel shows the workloads running in the namespace that is defined in the current
   Kubernetes context.

4. (Optional) See the context and namespace currently configured by running:

   ```console
   kubectl config get-contexts
   ```

5. (Optional) Set a namespace for the current context by running:

   ```console
   kubectl config set-context --current --namespace=YOUR-NAMESPACE
   ```

   After the workload is deployed, the status on the Tanzu Workloads panel changes to `Ready`.

   ![Workload ready on Tanzu Workloads. It shows details for tanzu-java-web-app.](../images/vscode-panel-workload-ready.png)

## <a id="debugging-on-clust"></a> Debugging on the cluster

The extension enables you to debug your application on your Kubernetes cluster that has
Tanzu Application Platform.

Debugging requires a `workload.yaml` file in your project.
For information about creating a `workload.yaml` file, see
[Get Started with Tanzu Developer Tools for VS Code](../vscode-extension/getting-started.hbs.md#set-up-tanzu-dev-tools).

The developer sandbox experience enables developers to Live Update their code, and simultaneously
debug the updated code, without having to deactivate Live Update when debugging.

### <a id="start-debugging"></a> Start debugging on the cluster

To start debugging on the cluster:

1. Add a [breakpoint](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/debugging#_breakpoints) in your code.
2. Right-click anywhere in the VS Code project explorer or open the Command Palette by pressing ⇧⌘P
   (Ctrl+Shift+P on Windows).
3. Click **Tanzu: Java Debug Workload** from either menu.

### <a id="stop-debugging"></a> Stop Debugging on the cluster

To stop debugging on the cluster, you can click the stop button in the Debug overlay.

  ![The VS Code interface close-up on the debug overlay showing the stop rectangle button and pointer description.](../images/vscode-stopdebug1.png)

Alternatively, you can press ⌘+J (Ctrl+J on Windows) to open the panel and then click the trash can
button for the debug task running in the panel.

  ![The VS Code interface close-up on the tasks panel showing the delete trash can button.](../images/vscode-stopdebug2.png)

### <a id="microservices-debug"></a> Debug apps in a microservice repository

To debug multiple apps in a microservice repository:

1. Add each app folder as a workspace folder. For instructions, see the
   [Visual Studio Code documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/multi-root-workspaces#_adding-folders).

2. Update the `tanzu.debugPort` setting so that it does not conflict with other debugging sessions.
   For how to update individual workspace folder settings, see the
   [Visual Studio Code documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/multi-root-workspaces#_settings).

## <a id="live-update"></a> Live Update

With the use of Live Update facilitated by [Tilt](https://docs.tilt.dev/), the extension enables you
to deploy your workload once, save changes to the code, and see those changes reflected in the
workload running on the cluster within seconds.

Live Update requires a `workload.yaml` file and a Tiltfile in your project.
For information about how to create a `workload.yaml` and a Tiltfile, see
[Get Started with Tanzu Developer Tools for VS Code](../vscode-extension/getting-started.hbs.md#set-up-tanzu-dev-tools).

The developer sandbox experience enables developers to Live Update their code, and simultaneously
debug the updated code, without having to deactivate Live Update when debugging.

### <a id="start-live-update"></a> Start Live Update

You can start Live Update by right-clicking anywhere in the VS Code project explorer and then clicking
**Tanzu: Live Update Start** in the pop-up menu.

![The VS Code interface showing the Explorer tab with the Tiltfile file right-click menu open and the Tanzu: Live Update Start option highlighted.](../images/vscode-startliveupdate1.png)

Alternatively, you can press `⇧⌘P` to open the Command Palette and then run the
`Tanzu: Live Update Start` command.

![Command palette open showing text Tanzu: Live Update Start.](../images/vscode-startliveupdate2.png)

### <a id="stop-live-update"></a> Stop Live Update

When Live Update stops, your application continues to run on the cluster, but the changes you made
and saved in your editor are not present in your running application unless you redeploy your
application to the cluster.

To stop Live Update, click the trash can button in the terminal pane to stop the Live Update process.

![The VS Code interface showing the terminal window with the pointer on the trash can button.](../images/vscode-stopliveupdate.png)

### <a id="disable-live-update"></a> Deactivate Live Update

You can remove the Live Update capability from your application entirely.
You might find this option useful in a troubleshooting scenario.
Deactivating Live Update redeploys your workload to the cluster and removes the Live Update capability.

To deactivate Live Update:

1. Press ⇧⌘P (Ctrl+Shift+P on Windows) to open the Command Palette.
2. Run `Tanzu: Live Update Disable`.

   ![Command palette open showing text Tanzu: Live Update Disable.](../images/vscode-liveupdatedisable.png)

3. Type the name of the workload for which you want to deactivate Live Update.

### <a id="live-update-status"></a> Live Update status

The current status of Live Update is visible on the right side of the status bar at the bottom of
the VS Code window.

![The VS Code interface showing the Tanzu Live Update Status section of the Status bar. The pop-up menu is open.](../images/vscode-liveupdatestatus1.png)

The Live Update status bar entry shows the following states:

- Live Update Stopped
- Live Update Starting…
- Live Update Running

To hide the Live Update status bar entry, right-click it and then click
**Hide 'Tanzu Developer Tools (Extension)'**.

![The VS Code interface showing the Tanzu Live Update Status section of the Status bar with the right-click menu open and the Hide Tanzu Developer Tools (Extension) option highlighted.](../images/vscode-liveupdatestatus2.png)

### <a id="microservices-live-update"></a> Live Update apps in a microservices repository

To Live Update multiple apps in a microservice repository:

1. Add each app folder as a workspace folder. For instructions, see the
   [Visual Studio Code documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/multi-root-workspaces#_adding-folders).

2. Ensure that a port is available to port-forward the Knative service.
   For example, you might have this in your Tiltfile:

   ```bazel
   k8s_resource('tanzu-java-web-app', port_forwards=["NUMBER:8080"],
               extra_pod_selectors=[{'carto.run/workload-name': 'tanzu-java-web-app', 'app.kubernetes.io/component': 'run'}])
   ```

   Where `NUMBER` is the port you choose. For example, `port_forwards=["9999:8080"]`.

## <a id="delete-workload"></a> Delete a workload

The extension enables you to delete workloads on your Kubernetes cluster that has
Tanzu Application Platform.

To delete a workload:

1. Right-click anywhere in the VS Code project explorer or open the Command Palette by pressing ⇧⌘P
   (Ctrl+Shift+P on Windows).

2. Run `Tanzu: Delete Workload`.

3. Select the workload to delete.

   ![Delete Workload menu open showing workloads available to delete.](../images/vscode-deleteworkload3.png)

   If the **Tanzu: Confirm Delete** setting is enabled, a message appears that prompts you to delete
   the workload and not warn again, delete the workload, or cancel.

   ![Delete Confirmation Notification showing delete options.](../images/vscode-deleteworkload4.png)

   A notification appears showing that the workload was deleted.

   ![Delete Workload Notification showing workload has been deleted.](../images/vscode-deleteworkload5.png)

## <a id="switch-namespace"></a> Switch namespaces

To switch the namespace where you created the workload:

1. Go to **Code** > **Preferences** > **Settings**.
1. Expand the **Extensions** section of the settings and click **Tanzu**.
1. In the **Namespace** option, add the namespace you want to deploy to. This is the `default`
   namespace by default.

![The VS Code settings scrolled to the Tanzu section within the Extensions section.](../images/vscode-switchnamespace1.png)

## <a id="workload-panel"></a> Tanzu Workloads panel

The current state of the workloads is visible on the Tanzu Workloads panel in the bottom left corner
of the VS Code window. The panel shows the current status of each workload, namespace, and cluster.
It also shows whether Live Update and Debug is running, stopped, or deactivated.

The Tanzu Workloads panel uses the cluster and namespace specified in the current kubectl context.

Workload commands are available from the Tanzu Workloads panel on workloads that have an associated module in the current project. This association is based on a match of the module name and the workload name. For example, a project with a module named "my-app" will be associated with a deployed workload named "my-app". When taking an action from the workload panel, the action will use the namespace of the deployed workload regardless of the configuration in the module. For example, you may have a Live Upate configuration with a namespace argument of "my-apps-1", but running the action from a deployed workload in namespace "my-apps-2" will start a Live Update session with a namespace argument of "my-apps-2".

1. View the current context and namespace by running:

   ```console
   kubectl config get-contexts
   ```

2. Set a namespace for the current context by running:

   ```console
   kubectl config set-context --current --namespace=YOUR-NAMESPACE
   ```

   ![VS Code Workload Panel showing the Terminal log.](../images/vscode-panel-live-update-running.png)

## <a id="mono-repo"></a> Working with Microservices in a Monorepo

A monorepo is single Git repository that contains multiple workloads.
Each individual workload is placed in a subfolder of the main repository.

You can find an example of this in [Application Accelerator](../application-accelerator/about-application-accelerator.hbs.md).
The relevant accelerator is called Spring SMTP Gateway, and you can obtain its source code as an
accelerator or directly from the
[application-accelerator-samples](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/application-accelerator-samples/tree/tap-1.3.x/spring-smtp-gateway)
GitHub repository.

This project exemplifies a typical layout:

- `MONO-REPO-ROOT/`
  - `pom.xml` (parent pom)
  - `microservice-app-1/`
    - `pom.xml`
    - `mvnw` (and other mvn-related files for building the workload)
    - `Tiltfile` (supports Live Update)
    - `config`
      - `workload.yaml` (supports deploying and debugging from IntelliJ)
    - `src/` (contains source code for this microservice)
  - `microservice-app-2/`
    - ...similar layout

### <a id="rec-struct"></a> Recommended structure: Microservices that can be built independently

In this example, each of the microservices can be built independently of one another.
Each subfolder contains everything needed to build that workload.

This is reflected in the `source` section of `workload.yaml` by using the `subPath` attribute:

```yaml
apiVersion: carto.run/v1alpha1
kind: Workload
metadata:
  name: microservice-app-1
  ...
spec:
  source:
    git:
      ref:
        branch: main
      url: https://github.com/kdvolder/sample-mono-repo.git
    subPath: microservice-app-1 # build only this
  ...
```

For setting up your own repositories, it's best practice to set up a monorepo so that each
microservice can be built completely independently.

To work with these monorepos:

- Import the monorepo as a project into VSCode.
- Interact with each of the subfolders in the same way you would a project containing a single workload.

### <a id="alt-struct"></a> Alternative structure: Services with build-time interdependencies

Some monorepos do not have submodules that can be independently built.
Instead the `pom.xml` files of the submodules are set up to have some build-time interdependencies.
For example:

- A submodule `pom.xml` can reference the parent `pom.xml` as a common place for
  centralized dependency management.
- A microservice submodule can reference another, as a maven dependency.
- Several microservice submodules can reference one or more shared libary modules.

For these projects, make these adjustments:

1. Make `workload.yaml` point to the repository root, not a subfolder.
   Because submodules have dependencies on code outside of their own subfolder, all source code
   from the repository must be supplied to the workload builder.

2. Make `workload.yaml` specify additional buildpack arguments through environment variables.
   They differentiate the submodule that the build is targeting.

   Both of these `workload.yaml` changes are in the following example:

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: carto.run/v1alpha1
   kind: Workload
   metadata:
   name: fortune-ui
   labels:
      apps.tanzu.vmware.com/workload-type: web
      app.kubernetes.io/part-of: fortune-ui
   spec:
   build:
      env:
         - name: BP_MAVEN_BUILD_ARGUMENTS
         value: package -pl fortune-teller-ui -am # indicate which module to build.
         - name: BP_MAVEN_BUILT_MODULE
         value: fortune-teller-ui # indicate where to find the built artefact to deploy.
   source:
      git:
         url: https://github.com/my-user/fortune-teller # repo root
         ref:
         branch: main
   ```

   For more information about these and other `BP_xxx` buildpack parameters, see the
   [Buildpack Documentation](https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/maven/blob/main/README.md).

3. Make the local path preference for each subfolder point to the path of the repository root
   Because submodules have dependencies on code outside of their own subfolder, all source code
   from the repository must be supplied to the workload builder.

   ![VS Code Monorepo Preferences in Settings. The folder drop-down menu is circled in red. The Local Path text box is also circled in red.](../images/vscode-monorepo-preferences.png)

## <a id="log-setting"></a> Changing logging verbosity

The Tanzu Language Server saves logs to `~/tanzu-langserver.log`. You can change the log verbosity in **Preferences** -> **Extensions** -> **Tanzu Developer Tools** -> **Log Verbosity**.
