tap-gui/plugins/api-docs.hbs.md, before:

# API documentation plug-in in Tanzu Application Platform GUI

This topic gives you an overview of the API documentation plug-in of Tanzu Application Platform GUI
(commonly called TAP GUI). For more information, see
[Get started with the API documentation plug-in](api-docs-getting-started.hbs.md).

## <a id="overview"></a> Overview

The API documentation plug-in provides a standalone list of APIs that can be connected to
components and systems of the Tanzu Application Platform GUI software catalog.

Each API entity can reflect the components that provide that API and the list of components
that are consumers of that API.
Also, an API entity can be associated to systems and show up on the system diagram.
To show such dependency, make the `spec.providesApis:` and `spec.consumesApis:` sections of the
component definition files reference the name of the API entity.

Here's a sample of how you can add `providesApis` and `consumesApis` to an existing component's
catalog definition, linking them together.

```yaml
apiVersion: backstage.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: example-component
  description: Example Component
spec:
  type: service
  lifecycle: experimental
  owner: team-a
  system: example-system
  providesApis: # list of APIs provided by the Component
    - example-api-1
  consumesApis: # list of APIs consumed by the Component
    - example-api-2
```

For more information about the structure of the definition file for an API entity, see the
[Backstage Kind: API documentation](https://backstage.io/docs/features/software-catalog/descriptor-format#kind-api).
For more information about the API documentation plug-in, see the
[Backstage API documentation](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/blob/master/plugins/api-docs/README.md)
in GitHub.

## <a id='use-api-docs-plug-in'></a> Use the API documentation plug-in

The API documentation plug-in is part of Tanzu Application Platform GUI.

The first way to use the API documentation plug-in is API-first.
Click **APIs** in the left navigation pane of Tanzu Application Platform GUI.
This opens the **API catalog page**.

![Screenshot of the API catalog page. The API named demo dash api is framed in red.](../images/api-plugin-1.png)

On that page, you can view all the APIs already registered in the catalog regardless of whether they
are associated with components or systems.

The second way to use the API documentation plug-in is by using components and systems of the
software catalog, listed on the home page of Tanzu Application Platform GUI.
If there is an API entity associated with the selected component or system, the **VIEW API** icon
is active.

![Screenshot of the Component page. The View API button is framed in red.](../images/api-plugin-2.png)

The **VIEW API** tab displays which APIs are being consumed by a component and which APIs are
being provided by the component.

![Screenshot of the VIEW API page. The API named demo dash api is framed in red.](../images/api-plugin-3.png)

Clicking on the API itself takes you to the catalog entry for the API, which the Kind
type listed in the upper-left corner denotes.
Every API entity has a title and short description, including a reference to the team that owns the
definition of that API and the software catalog objects that are connected to it.

![Screenshot of the Overview tab on the page for an API named demo dash api.](../images/api-plugin-4.png)

By choosing the **Definition** tab on the top of the API page, you can see the definition of that
API in human-readable and machine-readable format.

![Screenshot of the Definition tab on the page for an API named demo dash api.](../images/api-plugin-5.png)

The API documentation plug-in supports the following API formats:

- OpenAPI 2 & 3
- AsyncAPI
- GraphQL
- Plain (to support any other format)

## <a id='create-project'></a> Create a new API entry

You can create a new API entry manually or automatically.

### <a id='manually-create'></a> Manually create a new API entry

Manually creating a new API entity is similar to registering any other software catalog entity.
To manually create a new API entity:

1. Click the **Home** button on the left navigation pane to access the home page of
   Tanzu Application Platform GUI.

2. Click **REGISTER ENTITY**.

    ![Screenshot of Your Organization Catalog. The REGISTER ENTITY button in the header is framed in red.](../../images/getting-started-tap-gui-5.png)

3. **Register an existing component** prompts you to type a repository URL.
   Paste the link to the `catalog-info.yaml` file of your choice that contains the definition of your
   API entity.
   For example, you can copy the following YAML content and save it as `catalog-info.yaml` on a Git
   repository of your choice.

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: backstage.io/v1alpha1
   kind: API
   metadata:
   name: demo-api
   description: The demo API for Tanzu Application Platform GUI
   links:
     - url: https://api.agify.io
       title: API Definition
       icon: docs
   spec:
   type: openapi
   lifecycle: experimental
   owner: demo-team
   system: demo-app # Or specify system name of your choice
   definition: |
     openapi: 3.0.1
     info:
       title: defaultTitle
       description: defaultDescription
       version: '0.1'
     servers:
       - url: https://api.agify.io
     paths:
       /:
         get:
           description: Auto generated using Swagger Inspector
           parameters:
             - name: name
               in: query
               schema:
                 type: string
               example: type_any_name
           responses:
             '200':
               description: Auto generated using Swagger Inspector
               content:
                 application/json; charset=utf-8:
                   schema:
                     type: string
                   examples: {}
   ```

4. Click **ANALYZE** and then review the catalog entities to be added.

   ![Screenshot of the workflow diagram to create a new API entity. The Review stage has been reached.](../images/api-plugin-6.png)

5. Click **IMPORT**.

6. Click **APIs** on the left navigation pane to view entries on the **API** page.

### <a id='auto-create'></a> Automatically create a new API entry

Tanzu Application Platform v1.3 introduces a feature called **API Auto Registration** that can
automatically register your APIs.
For more information, see [API Auto Registration](../../api-auto-registration/about.hbs.md).

Commit message:

[TAAP-1399] Change Tanzu Application Platform GUI to Tanzu Developer Portal

tap-gui/plugins/api-docs.hbs.md, after:

# API documentation plug-in in Tanzu Developer Portal

This topic gives you an overview of the API documentation plug-in of Tanzu Developer Portal
(commonly called TAP GUI). For more information, see
[Get started with the API documentation plug-in](api-docs-getting-started.hbs.md).

## <a id="overview"></a> Overview

The API documentation plug-in provides a standalone list of APIs that can be connected to
components and systems of the Tanzu Developer Portal software catalog.

Each API entity can reflect the components that provide that API and the list of components
that are consumers of that API.
Also, an API entity can be associated to systems and show up on the system diagram.
To show such dependency, make the `spec.providesApis:` and `spec.consumesApis:` sections of the
component definition files reference the name of the API entity.

Here's a sample of how you can add `providesApis` and `consumesApis` to an existing component's
catalog definition, linking them together.

```yaml
apiVersion: backstage.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: example-component
  description: Example Component
spec:
  type: service
  lifecycle: experimental
  owner: team-a
  system: example-system
  providesApis: # list of APIs provided by the Component
    - example-api-1
  consumesApis: # list of APIs consumed by the Component
    - example-api-2
```

For more information about the structure of the definition file for an API entity, see the
[Backstage Kind: API documentation](https://backstage.io/docs/features/software-catalog/descriptor-format#kind-api).
For more information about the API documentation plug-in, see the
[Backstage API documentation](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/blob/master/plugins/api-docs/README.md)
in GitHub.

## <a id='use-api-docs-plug-in'></a> Use the API documentation plug-in

The API documentation plug-in is part of Tanzu Developer Portal.

The first way to use the API documentation plug-in is API-first.
Click **APIs** in the left navigation pane of Tanzu Developer Portal.
This opens the **API catalog page**.

![Screenshot of the API catalog page. The API named demo dash api is framed in red.](../images/api-plugin-1.png)

On that page, you can view all the APIs already registered in the catalog regardless of whether they
are associated with components or systems.

The second way to use the API documentation plug-in is by using components and systems of the
software catalog, listed on the home page of Tanzu Developer Portal.
If there is an API entity associated with the selected component or system, the **VIEW API** icon
is active.

![Screenshot of the Component page. The View API button is framed in red.](../images/api-plugin-2.png)

The **VIEW API** tab displays which APIs are being consumed by a component and which APIs are
being provided by the component.

![Screenshot of the VIEW API page. The API named demo dash api is framed in red.](../images/api-plugin-3.png)

Clicking on the API itself takes you to the catalog entry for the API, which the Kind
type listed in the upper-left corner denotes.
Every API entity has a title and short description, including a reference to the team that owns the
definition of that API and the software catalog objects that are connected to it.

![Screenshot of the Overview tab on the page for an API named demo dash api.](../images/api-plugin-4.png)

By choosing the **Definition** tab on the top of the API page, you can see the definition of that
API in human-readable and machine-readable format.

![Screenshot of the Definition tab on the page for an API named demo dash api.](../images/api-plugin-5.png)

The API documentation plug-in supports the following API formats:

- OpenAPI 2 & 3
- AsyncAPI
- GraphQL
- Plain (to support any other format)

## <a id='create-project'></a> Create a new API entry

You can create a new API entry manually or automatically.

### <a id='manually-create'></a> Manually create a new API entry

Manually creating a new API entity is similar to registering any other software catalog entity.
To manually create a new API entity:

1. Click the **Home** button on the left navigation pane to access the home page of
   Tanzu Developer Portal.

2. Click **REGISTER ENTITY**.

    ![Screenshot of Your Organization Catalog. The REGISTER ENTITY button in the header is framed in red.](../../images/getting-started-tap-gui-5.png)

3. **Register an existing component** prompts you to type a repository URL.
   Paste the link to the `catalog-info.yaml` file of your choice that contains the definition of your
   API entity.
   For example, you can copy the following YAML content and save it as `catalog-info.yaml` on a Git
   repository of your choice.

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: backstage.io/v1alpha1
   kind: API
   metadata:
   name: demo-api
   description: The demo API for Tanzu Developer Portal
   links:
     - url: https://api.agify.io
       title: API Definition
       icon: docs
   spec:
   type: openapi
   lifecycle: experimental
   owner: demo-team
   system: demo-app # Or specify system name of your choice
   definition: |
     openapi: 3.0.1
     info:
       title: defaultTitle
       description: defaultDescription
       version: '0.1'
     servers:
       - url: https://api.agify.io
     paths:
       /:
         get:
           description: Auto generated using Swagger Inspector
           parameters:
             - name: name
               in: query
               schema:
                 type: string
               example: type_any_name
           responses:
             '200':
               description: Auto generated using Swagger Inspector
               content:
                 application/json; charset=utf-8:
                   schema:
                     type: string
                   examples: {}
   ```

4. Click **ANALYZE** and then review the catalog entities to be added.

   ![Screenshot of the workflow diagram to create a new API entity. The Review stage has been reached.](../images/api-plugin-6.png)

5. Click **IMPORT**.

6. Click **APIs** on the left navigation pane to view entries on the **API** page.

### <a id='auto-create'></a> Automatically create a new API entry

Tanzu Application Platform v1.3 introduces a feature called **API Auto Registration** that can
automatically register your APIs.
For more information, see [API Auto Registration](../../api-auto-registration/about.hbs.md).
