tap-gui/plugins/scc-tap-gui.hbs.md, before:

# Supply Chain Choreographer in Tanzu Application Platform GUI

This topic tells you about Supply Chain Choreographer in Tanzu Application Platform GUI
(commonly called TAP GUI).

## <a id="overview"></a> Overview

The Supply Chain Choreographer (SCC) plug-in enables you to visualize the execution of a workload by
using any of the installed Out-of-the-Box supply chains.
For more information about the Out-of-the-Box (OOTB) supply chains that are available in
Tanzu Application Platform, see [Supply Chain Choreographer for Tanzu](../../scc/about.hbs.md).

## <a id="prerequisites"></a> Prerequisites

To use Supply Chain Choreographer in Tanzu Application Platform GUI you must have:

- One of the following installed on your cluster:
  - [Tanzu Application Platform Full profile](../../install-online/profile.hbs.md#install-profile)
  - [Tanzu Application Platform View profile](../../install-online/profile.hbs.md#install-profile)
  - [Tanzu Application Platform GUI package](../install-tap-gui.hbs.md) and a metadata store package
- One of the following installed on the target cluster where you want to deploy your workload:
  - [Tanzu Application Platform Run profile](../../install-online/profile.hbs.md#install-profile)
  - [Tanzu Application Platform Full profile](../../install-online/profile.hbs.md#install-profile)

For more information, see [Overview of multicluster Tanzu Application Platform](../../multicluster/about.hbs.md)

## <a id="scan"></a> Enable CVE scan results

To see CVE scan results within Tanzu Application Platform GUI, connect Tanzu Application Platform GUI
to the Tanzu Application Platform component Supply Chain Security Tools - Store (SCST - Store).

### <a id="scan-auto"></a> Automatically connect Tanzu Application Platform GUI to Metadata Store

Tanzu Application Platform GUI has automation for enabling connection between
Tanzu Application Platform GUI and SCST - Store. By default, this automation is active and requires
no configuration. To deactivate this automation, add the following block to the
Tanzu Application Platform GUI section within your `tap-values.yaml` file:

```yaml
# tap-values.yaml

# ...
tap_gui:
  # ...
  metadataStoreAutoconfiguration: false
```

This file change creates a service account for the connection with privileges scoped only to
Metadata Store.
In addition, it mounts the token of the service account into the Tanzu Application Platform GUI
pod and produces for you the `app_config` section necessary for Tanzu Application Platform GUI to
communicate with SCST - Store.

#### <a id="troubleshooting"></a> Troubleshooting

For debugging the automation, or for verifying that the automation is active, you must know
which resources are created. The following commands display the different Kubernetes resources that
are created when `tap_gui.metadataStoreAutoconfiguration` is set to `true`:

```console
$ kubectl -n tap-gui get serviceaccount metadata-store
NAME             SECRETS   AGE
metadata-store   1         AGE-VALUE
```

```console
$ kubectl -n tap-gui get secret metadata-store-access-token
NAME                          TYPE                                  DATA   AGE
metadata-store-access-token   kubernetes.io/service-account-token   3      AGE-VALUE
```

```console
$ kubectl -n tap-gui get clusterrole metadata-store-reader
NAME                    CREATED AT
metadata-store-reader   CREATED-AT-TIME
```

```console
$ kubectl -n tap-gui get clusterrolebinding read-metadata-store
NAME                  ROLE                                AGE
read-metadata-store   ClusterRole/metadata-store-reader   AGE-VALUE
```

There is another condition that impacts whether the automation creates the necessary service account.
If your configuration includes a `/metadata-store` block, the automation doesn't create the
Kubernetes resources for use in `autoconfiguration` and the automation doesn't overwrite the proxy
block that you provide. To use the automation, you must delete the block at
`tap_gui.app_config.proxy["/metadata-store"]`.

For example, a `tap-values.yaml` file with the following content does not create additional Kubernetes
resources as described earlier:

```yaml
# ...
tap_gui:
  # ...
  app_config:
    # ...
    proxy:
      '/metadata-store':
        target: SOMETHING
```

### <a id="scan-manual"></a> Manually connect Tanzu Application Platform GUI to Metadata Store

To manually enable CVE scan results:

1. [Obtain the read-write token](../../scst-store/retrieve-access-tokens.hbs.md),
   which is created by default when installing Tanzu Application Platform. Alternatively,
   [create an additional read-write service account](../../scst-store/create-service-account.hbs.md#rw-serv-accts).
2. Add this proxy configuration to the `tap-gui:` section of `tap-values.yaml`:

    ```yaml
    tap_gui:
      app_config:
        proxy:
          /metadata-store:
            target: https://metadata-store-app.metadata-store:8443/api/v1
            changeOrigin: true
            secure: false
            headers:
              Authorization: "Bearer ACCESS-TOKEN"
              X-Custom-Source: project-star
    ```

    Where `ACCESS-TOKEN` is the token you obtained after creating a read-write service account.

> **Important** The `Authorization` value must start with the word `Bearer`.

## <a id="view-approvals"></a> Enable GitOps Pull Request Flow

Set up for GitOps and pull requests to enable the supply chain box-and-line diagram to show
**Approve a Request** in the **Config Writer** stage details view when the **Config Writer** stage is
clicked.
For more information, see [GitOps vs. RegistryOps](../../scc/gitops-vs-regops.hbs.md).

## <a id="sc-visibility"></a> Supply Chain Visibility

Before using the SCC plug-in to visualize a workload, you must create a workload.

The workload must have the `app.kubernetes.io/part-of` label specified, whether you manually create
the workload or use one supplied with the OOTB supply chains.

Use the left sidebar navigation to access your workload and visualize it in the supply chain that is
installed on your cluster.

The example workload described in this topic is named `tanzu-java-web-app`.

![Screenshot of the Workloads section that includes the apps spring-petclinic and tanzu-java-web-app.](images/workloads.png)

Click **tanzu-java-web-app** in the **WORKLOADS** table to navigate to the visualization of the
supply chain.

![Screenshot of the Supply Chain visualization. The source-scanner stage is selected.](images/visual-sc.png)

There are two sections within this view:

- The box-and-line diagram at the top shows all the configured CRDs that this supply chain uses, and
  any artifacts that the supply chain's execution outputs
- The **Stage Detail** section at the bottom shows source data for each part of the supply chain that
  you select in the diagram view

This is a sample result of the Build stage for the `tanzu-java-web-app` from using
Tanzu Build Service:

![Screenshot of details of the Build stage of the application tanzu dash java dash web dash app.](images/build-stage-sample.png)

This is a sample result of the **Image Scan** stage using Grype, which is only available in the
`test-scan` OOTB supply chain.
For more information, see the [View Vulnerability Scan Results](#sc-view-scan-results) section.

![Screenshot of details of the Image Scanner stage. CVEs are listed.](images/scc-scan.png)

When a workload is deployed to a cluster that has the `deliverable` package installed, a new section
appears in the supply chain that shows **Pull Config** boxes and **Delivery** boxes.

![Screenshot of part of the box-and-line diagram. Two Pull Config boxes are each separately linked to two Delivery boxes.](images/pull-config-and-delivery-boxes.png)

When you have a `Pull Request` configured in your environment, access the merge request from the
supply chain by clicking **APPROVE A REQUEST**. This button is displayed after you click
**Config Writer** in the supply chain diagram.

In the following example, the merge request is approved, which causes **Pull Config** and **Delivery**
boxes to appear in the supply chain diagram.

![Screenshot of the pull request flow diagram. The APPROVE A REQUEST button is at the bottom middle of the screenshot.](images/pr-flow-diagram.png)

## <a id="sc-view-scan-results"></a> View Vulnerability Scan Results

Click the **Source Scan** stage or **Image Scan** stage to view vulnerability source scans and
image scans for workload builds. The data is from
[Supply Chain Security Tools - Store](../../scst-store/overview.hbs.md).

CVE issues represent any vulnerabilities associated with a package or version found in the
source code or image, including vulnerabilities from past scans.

> **Note** For example, the `log4shell` package is found in image ABC on 1 January without any CVEs.
> On 15 January, the log4j CVE issue is found while scanning image DEF. If a user returns to the
> **Image Scan** stage for image ABC, the log4j CVE issue appears and is associated with the
> `log4shell` package.

Commit message:

[TAAP-1399] Change Tanzu Application Platform GUI to Tanzu Developer Portal

tap-gui/plugins/scc-tap-gui.hbs.md, after:

# Supply Chain Choreographer in Tanzu Developer Portal

This topic tells you about Supply Chain Choreographer in Tanzu Developer Portal
(commonly called TAP GUI).

## <a id="overview"></a> Overview

The Supply Chain Choreographer (SCC) plug-in enables you to visualize the execution of a workload by
using any of the installed Out-of-the-Box supply chains.
For more information about the Out-of-the-Box (OOTB) supply chains that are available in
Tanzu Application Platform, see [Supply Chain Choreographer for Tanzu](../../scc/about.hbs.md).

## <a id="prerequisites"></a> Prerequisites

To use Supply Chain Choreographer in Tanzu Developer Portal you must have:

- One of the following installed on your cluster:
  - [Tanzu Application Platform Full profile](../../install-online/profile.hbs.md#install-profile)
  - [Tanzu Application Platform View profile](../../install-online/profile.hbs.md#install-profile)
  - [Tanzu Developer Portal package](../install-tap-gui.hbs.md) and a metadata store package
- One of the following installed on the target cluster where you want to deploy your workload:
  - [Tanzu Application Platform Run profile](../../install-online/profile.hbs.md#install-profile)
  - [Tanzu Application Platform Full profile](../../install-online/profile.hbs.md#install-profile)

For more information, see [Overview of multicluster Tanzu Application Platform](../../multicluster/about.hbs.md)

## <a id="scan"></a> Enable CVE scan results

To see CVE scan results within Tanzu Developer Portal, connect Tanzu Developer Portal
to the Tanzu Application Platform component Supply Chain Security Tools - Store (SCST - Store).

### <a id="scan-auto"></a> Automatically connect Tanzu Developer Portal to Metadata Store

Tanzu Developer Portal has automation for enabling connection between
Tanzu Developer Portal and SCST - Store. By default, this automation is active and requires
no configuration. To deactivate this automation, add the following block to the
Tanzu Developer Portal section within your `tap-values.yaml` file:

```yaml
# tap-values.yaml

# ...
tap_gui:
  # ...
  metadataStoreAutoconfiguration: false
```

This file change creates a service account for the connection with privileges scoped only to
Metadata Store.
In addition, it mounts the token of the service account into the Tanzu Developer Portal
pod and produces for you the `app_config` section necessary for Tanzu Developer Portal to
communicate with SCST - Store.

#### <a id="troubleshooting"></a> Troubleshooting

For debugging the automation, or for verifying that the automation is active, you must know
which resources are created. The following commands display the different Kubernetes resources that
are created when `tap_gui.metadataStoreAutoconfiguration` is set to `true`:

```console
$ kubectl -n tap-gui get serviceaccount metadata-store
NAME             SECRETS   AGE
metadata-store   1         AGE-VALUE
```

```console
$ kubectl -n tap-gui get secret metadata-store-access-token
NAME                          TYPE                                  DATA   AGE
metadata-store-access-token   kubernetes.io/service-account-token   3      AGE-VALUE
```

```console
$ kubectl -n tap-gui get clusterrole metadata-store-reader
NAME                    CREATED AT
metadata-store-reader   CREATED-AT-TIME
```

```console
$ kubectl -n tap-gui get clusterrolebinding read-metadata-store
NAME                  ROLE                                AGE
read-metadata-store   ClusterRole/metadata-store-reader   AGE-VALUE
```

There is another condition that impacts whether the automation creates the necessary service account.
If your configuration includes a `/metadata-store` block, the automation doesn't create the
Kubernetes resources for use in `autoconfiguration` and the automation doesn't overwrite the proxy
block that you provide. To use the automation, you must delete the block at
`tap_gui.app_config.proxy["/metadata-store"]`.

For example, a `tap-values.yaml` file with the following content does not create additional Kubernetes
resources as described earlier:

```yaml
# ...
tap_gui:
  # ...
  app_config:
    # ...
    proxy:
      '/metadata-store':
        target: SOMETHING
```

### <a id="scan-manual"></a> Manually connect Tanzu Developer Portal to Metadata Store

To manually enable CVE scan results:

1. [Obtain the read-write token](../../scst-store/retrieve-access-tokens.hbs.md),
   which is created by default when installing Tanzu Application Platform. Alternatively,
   [create an additional read-write service account](../../scst-store/create-service-account.hbs.md#rw-serv-accts).
2. Add this proxy configuration to the `tap-gui:` section of `tap-values.yaml`:

    ```yaml
    tap_gui:
      app_config:
        proxy:
          /metadata-store:
            target: https://metadata-store-app.metadata-store:8443/api/v1
            changeOrigin: true
            secure: false
            headers:
              Authorization: "Bearer ACCESS-TOKEN"
              X-Custom-Source: project-star
    ```

    Where `ACCESS-TOKEN` is the token you obtained after creating a read-write service account.

> **Important** The `Authorization` value must start with the word `Bearer`.

## <a id="view-approvals"></a> Enable GitOps Pull Request Flow

Set up for GitOps and pull requests to enable the supply chain box-and-line diagram to show
**Approve a Request** in the **Config Writer** stage details view when the **Config Writer** stage is
clicked.
For more information, see [GitOps vs. RegistryOps](../../scc/gitops-vs-regops.hbs.md).

## <a id="sc-visibility"></a> Supply Chain Visibility

Before using the SCC plug-in to visualize a workload, you must create a workload.

The workload must have the `app.kubernetes.io/part-of` label specified, whether you manually create
the workload or use one supplied with the OOTB supply chains.

Use the left sidebar navigation to access your workload and visualize it in the supply chain that is
installed on your cluster.

The example workload described in this topic is named `tanzu-java-web-app`.

![Screenshot of the Workloads section that includes the apps spring-petclinic and tanzu-java-web-app.](images/workloads.png)

Click **tanzu-java-web-app** in the **WORKLOADS** table to navigate to the visualization of the
supply chain.

![Screenshot of the Supply Chain visualization. The source-scanner stage is selected.](images/visual-sc.png)

There are two sections within this view:

- The box-and-line diagram at the top shows all the configured CRDs that this supply chain uses, and
  any artifacts that the supply chain's execution outputs
- The **Stage Detail** section at the bottom shows source data for each part of the supply chain that
  you select in the diagram view

This is a sample result of the Build stage for the `tanzu-java-web-app` from using
Tanzu Build Service:

![Screenshot of details of the Build stage of the application tanzu dash java dash web dash app.](images/build-stage-sample.png)

This is a sample result of the **Image Scan** stage using Grype, which is only available in the
`test-scan` OOTB supply chain.
For more information, see the [View Vulnerability Scan Results](#sc-view-scan-results) section.

![Screenshot of details of the Image Scanner stage. CVEs are listed.](images/scc-scan.png)

When a workload is deployed to a cluster that has the `deliverable` package installed, a new section
appears in the supply chain that shows **Pull Config** boxes and **Delivery** boxes.

![Screenshot of part of the box-and-line diagram. Two Pull Config boxes are each separately linked to two Delivery boxes.](images/pull-config-and-delivery-boxes.png)

When you have a `Pull Request` configured in your environment, access the merge request from the
supply chain by clicking **APPROVE A REQUEST**. This button is displayed after you click
**Config Writer** in the supply chain diagram.

In the following example, the merge request is approved, which causes **Pull Config** and **Delivery**
boxes to appear in the supply chain diagram.

![Screenshot of the pull request flow diagram. The APPROVE A REQUEST button is at the bottom middle of the screenshot.](images/pr-flow-diagram.png)

## <a id="sc-view-scan-results"></a> View Vulnerability Scan Results

Click the **Source Scan** stage or **Image Scan** stage to view vulnerability source scans and
image scans for workload builds. The data is from
[Supply Chain Security Tools - Store](../../scst-store/overview.hbs.md).

CVE issues represent any vulnerabilities associated with a package or version found in the
source code or image, including vulnerabilities from past scans.

> **Note** For example, the `log4shell` package is found in image ABC on 1 January without any CVEs.
> On 15 January, the log4j CVE issue is found while scanning image DEF. If a user returns to the
> **Image Scan** stage for image ABC, the log4j CVE issue appears and is associated with the
> `log4shell` package.
