# Enabling an Encrypted Connection to the Supply Chain Security Tools - Store

You can enable an encrypted connection using one of the following methods, depending on your service environment:

1. Using `LoadBalancer` 
1. Using `NodePort` — commonly used with local clusters such as kind, or minikube

After setting the connection, you will get a CA certificate to connect to the Supply Chain Security Tools - Store using the CLI or API.

## Using `LoadBalancer`

If you are using a `LoadBalancer` configuration, you need to find the external IP of the `metadata-store-app` service. 
For all `kubectl` commands, use the `--namespace metadata-store` flag. Run:

```sh
$ kubectl get service/metadata-store-app --namespace metadata-store -o yaml
...
spec:
  ports:
  - name: http
    nodePort: 32712
    port: 8443
    protocol: TCP
    targetPort: PORT
...
status:
  loadBalancer:
    ingress:
    - ip: IP-ADDRESS 
```
Where:

- `IP-ADDRESS` is your IP address. 
- `PORT` is your port number.

### Obtaining the CA Certificate

The CA certificate is generated by cert manager. Run the following command to get the CA certificate:

```sh
$ kubectl get secret app-tls-cert -n metadata-store -o json | jq -r '.data."ca.crt"' | base64 -d > PATH
```
Where:

- `PATH` is the location where you want to save the CA certificate. This file is used later when you [configure the CLI](configure_cli.md).

### Editing `/etc/hosts`

To add the IP entry mapping to `metadata-store-app.metadata-store.svc.cluster.local` in `/etc/hosts`, run:

```
10.186.124.220 metadata-store-app.metadata-store.svc.cluster.local
```

## Using `NodePort`
To use NodePort, obtain the CA cert, configure portforwarding, and modify the `/etc/hosts` file.

### Obtaining the CA Cert

The CA Certificate is generated by cert manager. Run the following command to get the CA certificate:

```sh
$ kubectl get secret app-tls-cert -n metadata-store -o json | jq -r '.data."ca.crt"' | base64 -d > PATH
```
Where:

- `PATH` is the location where you want to save the CA certificate. This file is used later when you [configure the CLI](configure_cli.md).

### Configuring Portforwarding
When using `NodePort`, you need to configure port forwarding for the service in order for the CLI to access the Supply Chain Security Tools - Store. Run:

```sh
$ kubectl port-forward service/metadata-store-app 8443:8443 -n metadata-store
```

Run this command in a separate terminal window, since it takes over the terminal.

### Modifying your `/etc/hosts` file

Add the following entry to `/etc/hosts` by running:

```
127.0.0.1 metadata-store-app.metadata-store.svc.cluster.local
```
