# Troubleshooting and known issues

This topic contains troubleshooting and known issues for Supply Chain Security Tools - Store.

## CrashLoopBackOff from password authentication failed

### Symptom

Supply Chain Security Tools - Store does not start up. You see the following error in the `metadata-store-app` Pod logs:

```sh
$ kubectl logs pod/metadata-store-app-* -n metadata-store -c metadata-store-app
...
[error] failed to initialize database, got error failed to connect to `host=metadata-store-db user=metadata-store-user database=metadata-store`: server error (FATAL: password authentication failed for user "metadata-store-user" (SQLSTATE 28P01))
```

### Solution

If you see the error above, you have changed the database password between deployments, which is not
supported. To change the password, see
[Persistent Volume Retains Data](#persistent-volume-retains-data) below.
> **Warning:** Changing the database password deletes your Supply Chain Security Tools - Store data.

## Persistent volume retains data

### Symptom

If Supply Chain Security Tools - Store is deployed, deleted, and then redeployed the
`metadata-store-db` Pod fails to start up if the database password changed during redeployment.
This is due to the persistent volume used by postgres retaining old data, even though the retention
policy is set to `DELETE`.

### Solution

To redeploy the app either use the same database password or follow the steps below to erase the
data on the volume:

1. Deploy metadata-store app through kapp.
1. Verify that the `metadata-store-db-*` Pod fails.
1. Run:

    ```console
    kubectl exec -it metadata-store-db-<some-id> -n metadata-store /bin/bash
    ```
    Where `<some-id>` is the ID generated by Kubernetes and appended to the Pod name.
1. Run `rm -rf /var/lib/postgresql/data/*` to delete all database data.
This is the path found in `postgres-db-deployment.yaml`.
1. Delete the `metadata-store` app through kapp.
1. Deploy the `metadata-store` app through kapp.


## Missing persistent volume

### Symptom

After Store is deployed, `metadata-store-db` Pod could fail for missing volume while
`postgres-db-pv-claim` pvc is in `PENDING` state.
This issue could be occurring because the cluster where Store is deployed does not have
`storageclass` defined.
`storageclass`'s provisioner is responsible for creating the persistent volume after
`metadata-store-db` attaches `postgres-db-pv-claim`.

### Solution

1. Verify that your cluster has `storageclass` by running `kubectl get storageclass`.
1. Create a `storageclass` in your cluster before deploying Store, for example:

    ```sh
    # This is the storageclass that Kind uses
    kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rancher/local-path-provisioner/master/deploy/local-path-storage.yaml
    
    # set the storage class as default
    kubectl patch storageclass local-path -p '{"metadata": {"annotations":{"storageclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class":"true"}}}'
    ```

## Querying local path source reports

### Symptom

If a source report has a local path as the name -- for example, `/path/to/code` -- the leading `/`
on the resulting repository name causes the querying packages and vulnerabilities to return the
following error from the client lib and the CLI: `{ "message": "Not found" }`.

The URL of the resulting HTTP request is properly escaped: for example,
`/api/sources/%2Fpath%2Fto%2Fdir/vulnerabilities`.

The rbac-proxy used for authentication handles this URL in a way that the response is a redirect:
for example, `HTTP 301\nLocation: /api/sources/path/to/dir/vulnerabilities`.
The Client Lib follows the redirect, making a request to the new URL which does not exist in the
Supply Chain Security Tools - Store API, resulting in the error message above.

## No support for installing in custom namespaces

All of our testing uses the `metadata-store` namespace.
Using a different namespace breaks authentication and certificate validation for the metadata-store API.

## Deploying for internal/external customers

Using `imgpkg copy` command copies the image bundle along with all images it references to a target
repository.

This is useful as it ensures the images used in the bundle are always available, even if the
images in the original location are no longer available: there is now a copy in the target
repository.

* Deploy the bundle by running:

    ```console
    imgpkg copy -b <bundle-image-registry>:<bundle-version-tag> --to-repo <target-image-registry-repo>/
    ```
    Where:

    - `<bundle-image-registry>` is the registry where you copy the image bundle.
    - `<bundle-version-tag>` is the image bundle version tag to copy.
    - `<target-image-registry-repo>` is where you paste the image bundle and all associated images.

## Reviewing logs

The API server generates logs that are useful for troubleshooting. For information about interpreting logs, see [Configuring and Understanding Store Logs](logs.md).
