# Overview of Supply Chain Security Tools for Tanzu – Store

This topic gives you an overview of Supply Chain Security Tools (SCST) – Store.

SCST - Store stores the metadata generated by supplies chains in Tanzu
Application Platform. It is made up of two services: Artifact Metadata
Repository (AMR) and the Metadata Store.

## <a id='amr'></a> Artifact Metadata Repository

AMR includes both AMR Observer and AMR CloudEvent Handler.

### <a id='observer'></a> AMR Observer

AMR Observer is a set of managed controllers that watches for relevant updates
on resources of interest. When relevant events are observed, a CloudEvent is
generated and sent to AMR CloudEvent Handler. By design, you can deploy this 
component on Full, Build, and Run profile clusters.

### <a id='handler'></a> AMR CloudEvent Handler

AMR CloudEvent Handler receives CloudEvents and stores relevant information in 
Artifact Metadata Repository or the Metadata Store. 
By design, you can deploy this component on Full and View profile clusters.

### <a id='resources'></a> Additional resources

- [Artifact Metadata Repository architecture](amr/architecture.hbs.md)
- [Configure Artifact Metadata Repository](amr/configuration.hbs.md)
- [Artifact Metadata Repository (AMR) data model and concepts](amr/data-model-and-concepts.hbs.md)
- [AMR GraphQL Query](amr/graphql-query.hbs.md)

## <a id='store'></a> The Metadata Store

For more information about the Metadata Store, see
[Overview of the Metadata Store](mds-overview.hbs.md).
