# Troubleshooting Supply Chain Security Tools - Store

This topic contains ways you can troubleshoot known issues for Supply Chain Security Tools (SCST) - Store.

## Querying by `insight source` returns zero CVEs even though there are CVEs in the source scan

### Symptom

The `insight source get` and other `insight source` commands return zero results.

### <a id='source-scan-no-cves-solution'></a> Solution

You might have to include different combinations of `--repo`, `--org`, `--commit` due to how the scan-controller populates the software bill of materials (SBOM). For more information see [Query vulnerabilities, images, and packages](../cli-plugins/insight/query-data.hbs.md).

## Persistent volume retains data

### Symptom

If **Supply Chain Security Tools - Store** is deployed, deleted, redeployed, and the database password is changed during the redeployment, the `metadata-store-db` pod fails to start. This is caused by the persistent volume used by postgres retaining old data, even though the retention policy is set to `DELETE`.

### <a id='persistent-volume-retains-data-solution'></a>Solution

>**Caution** Changing the database password deletes your Supply Chain Security Tools - Store data.

To redeploy the app, either use the same database password or follow these steps to erase the data on the volume:

1. Deploy metadata-store app by using `kapp`.
2. Verify that the `metadata-store-db-*` pod fails.
3. Run:

    ```console
    kubectl exec -it metadata-store-db-<some-id> -n metadata-store /bin/bash
    ```

    Where `<some-id>` is the ID generated by Kubernetes and appended to the pod name.

4. Run `rm -rf /var/lib/postgresql/data/*` to delete all database data.

    Where `/var/lib/postgresql/data/*` is the path found in `postgres-db-deployment.yaml`.

5. Delete the `metadata-store` app by using `kapp`.
6. Deploy the `metadata-store` app by using `kapp`.

## Missing persistent volume

### Symptom

After SCST - Store is deployed, `metadata-store-db` pod might fail for missing volume while
`postgres-db-pv-claim` pvc is in `PENDING` state.

This is because the cluster where SCST - Store is deployed does not have `storageclass` defined. `storageclass`'s provisioner is responsible for creating the persistent volume after `metadata-store-db` attaches `postgres-db-pv-claim`.

### <a id='missing-persistent-volume-solution'></a>Solution

1. Verify that your cluster has `storageclass` by running `kubectl get storageclass`.
2. Create a `storageclass` in your cluster before deploying SCST - Store. For example:

    ```console
    # This is the storageclass that Kind uses
    kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rancher/local-path-provisioner/master/deploy/local-path-storage.yaml

    # set the storage class as default
    kubectl patch storageclass local-path -p '{"metadata": {"annotations":{"storageclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class":"true"}}}'
    ```

## <a id="eks-1-23-volume"></a> Builds fail due to volume errors on EKS running Kubernetes v1.23

### Symptom

When installing SCST - Store on or upgrading an existing EKS cluster to Kubernetes v1.23, the satabase pod shows:

```console
running PreBind plugin "VolumeBinding": binding volumes: provisioning failed for PVC "postgres-db-pv-claim"
```

### Explanation

This is due to the [CSIMigrationAWS in this Kubernetes version](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/containers/amazon-eks-now-supports-kubernetes-1-23/) which requires users to install the [Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS) CSI Driver](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/ebs-csi.html) to use EBS volumes.

SCST - Store uses the default storage class which uses EBS volumes by default on EKS.

### Solution

Follow the AWS documentation to install the [Amazon EBS CSI Driver](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/ebs-csi.html) before installing SCST - Store or before upgrading to Kubernetes v1.23.

## <a id="certificate-expiries"></a> Certificate Expiries

### Symptom

The Insight CLI or the Scan Controller fails to connect to SCST - Store.

The logs of the metadata-store-app pod show the following error:

```console
$ kubectl logs deployment/metadata-store-app -c metadata-store-app -n metadata-store
...
2022/09/12 21:22:07 http: TLS handshake error from 127.0.0.1:35678: write tcp 127.0.0.1:9443->127.0.0.1:35678: write: broken pipe
...
```

or

The logs of metadata-store-db show the following error:

```console
$ kubectl logs statefulset/metadata-store-db -n metadata-store
...
2022-07-20 20:02:51.206 UTC [1] LOG:  database system is ready to accept connections
2022-09-19 18:05:26.576 UTC [13097] LOG:  could not accept SSL connection: sslv3 alert bad certificate
...
```

### Explanation

cert-manager rotates the certificates, but the metadata-store and the PostgreSQL db are unaware of the change, and are using the old certificates.

### Solution

If you see `TLS handshake error` in the metadata-store-app logs, delete the metadata-store-app pod and wait for it to come back up.

```console
kubectl delete pod metadata-store-app-xxxx -n metadata-store
```

If you see `could not accept SSL connection` in the metadata-store-db logs, delete the metadata-store-db pod and wait for it to come back up.

```console
kubectl delete pod metadata-store-db-0 -n metadata-store
```

## Troubleshooting errors from Tanzu Application Platform GUI related to SCST - Store

Different Tanzu Application Platform GUI plug-ins use SCST - Store to display information about
vulnerabilities and packages.
Some errors visible in Tanzu Application Platform GUI are related to this connection.

{{> 'partials/tap-gui/ts-err-load-metadata-store' }}
