# Configure target endpoint and certificate

The connection to the Store requires TLS encryption. Use the following instructions to set up the TLS connection, depending on which type of service you are using:

1. Using `LoadBalancer`
1. Using `NodePort` — commonly used with local clusters such as kind, or minikube

## <a id='use-lb'></a>Using `LoadBalancer`

If you are using a `LoadBalancer` configuration, you need to find the external IP of the `metadata-store-app` service. You can use `kubectl` to do this.

>**Note**: For all `kubectl` commands, use the `--namespace metadata-store` flag.

```
kubectl get service/metadata-store-app --namespace metadata-store -o yaml
```

For example:

```
$ kubectl get service/metadata-store-app --namespace metadata-store -o yaml
...
spec:
  ports:
  - name: http
    nodePort: 32712
    port: 8443
    protocol: TCP
    targetPort: PORT
...
status:
  loadBalancer:
    ingress:
    - ip: IP-ADDRESS
```

Where:

- `IP-ADDRESS` is your IP address.
- `PORT` is your port number.

### <a id='obtain-ca-lb'></a>Obtaining the CA certificate

The CA certificate is generated by cert manager. Run the following command to get the CA certificate:

```
kubectl get secret app-tls-cert -n metadata-store -o json | jq -r '.data."ca.crt"' | base64 -d > PATH
```

Where:

- `PATH` is the location where you want to save the CA certificate. Use this file later when you [configure the CLI](cli-configuration.md).

If using an ingress, the CA certificate for clients is the certificate of the ingress domain:

```
kubectl get secret ingress-cert -n metadata-store -o json | jq -r '.data."ca.crt"' | base64 -d > PATH
```

### <a id='dns-resolution'></a>DNS resolution

To support TLS domain verification, set up a record to resolve to the IP handling the connections. Do this through a DNS server or by modifying your local `/etc/hosts` file. 

If ingress is enabled, point this IP to the `envoy`'s service external IP from the `metadata-store` subdomain record:

```
IP metadata-store.<ingress_domain>
```

For installations without ingress enabled, add the IP entry mapping to `metadata-store-app.metadata-store.svc.cluster.local`:

```
IP metadata-store-app.metadata-store.svc.cluster.local
```

Where:

- `IP` is the IP you got from the earlier step *Using `LoadBalancer`* or the `envoy`'s service external IP. 

For example:

```bash
10.186.124.220 metadata-store-app.metadata-store.svc.cluster.local
# if using ingress
10.186.124.220 metadata-store.example.com
```

## <a id='use-np'></a>Using `NodePort`

To use NodePort, obtain the CA certificate, configure portforwarding, and modify the `/etc/hosts` file.

### <a id='obtain-ca-np'></a>Obtaining the CA certificate

The CA certificate is generated by cert manager. To get the CA certificate, run:

```
kubectl get secret app-tls-cert -n metadata-store -o json | jq -r '.data."ca.crt"' | base64 -d > PATH
```

Where:

- `PATH` is the location where you want to save the CA certificate. Use this file later when you [configure the CLI](cli-configuration.md).

If using an ingress, the CA certificate for clients is the certificate of the ingress domain:

```
kubectl get secret ingress-cert -n metadata-store -o json | jq -r '.data."ca.crt"' | base64 -d > PATH
```

### <a id='config-pf'></a>Configuring port forwarding

When using `NodePort`, configure port forwarding for the service for the CLI to access Supply Chain Security Tools - Store. Run:

```
kubectl port-forward service/metadata-store-app 8443:8443 -n metadata-store
```

Run this command in a separate terminal window.

### <a id='mod-etchost'></a>Modifying your `/etc/hosts` file

To add the following entry to `/etc/hosts`, run:

```
127.0.0.1 metadata-store-app.metadata-store.svc.cluster.local
```
