partials/vscode-extension/_install.hbs.md, before:

This topic tells you how to install VMware Tanzu Developer Tools for Visual Studio Code (VS Code).

## <a id="prereqs"></a> Prerequisites

Before installing the extension, you must have:

- [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl)
- [Tilt](https://docs.tilt.dev/install.html) v0.30.12 or later
- [Tanzu CLI and plug-ins](/docs-tap/install-tanzu-cli.hbs.md#cli-and-plugin)
- [A cluster with the Tanzu Application Platform Full profile or Iterate profile](/docs-tap/install-online/profile.hbs.md)

If you are an app developer, someone else in your organization might have already set up the
Tanzu Application Platform environment.

Docker Desktop and local Kubernetes are not prerequisites for using Tanzu Developer Tools for VS Code.

## <a id="install"></a> Install

To install the extension:

1. Sign in to VMware Tanzu Network and [download Tanzu Developer Tools for Visual Studio Code](https://network.tanzu.vmware.com/products/tanzu-application-platform).
2. Open VS Code.
3. Press cmd+shift+P to open the Command Palette and run `Extensions: Install from VSIX...`.
4. Select the extension file **tanzu-vscode-extension.vsix**.

    ![Command palette open showing text Extensions: INSTALL FROM VSIX...](/docs-tap/images/vscode-install1v2.png)

5. If you do not have the following extensions, and they do not automatically install, install them
from VS Code Marketplace:

    - [Debugger for Java](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vscjava.vscode-java-debug)
    - [Language Support for Java(™) by Red Hat](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.java)
    - [YAML](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.vscode-yaml)

1. Ensure Language Support for Java is running in
[Standard Mode](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/java/java-project#_lightweight-mode).
You can configure it in the **Settings** menu by going to **Code** > **Preferences** > **Settings**
under **Java > Server: Launch Mode**.

    ![The VS Code settings open to the Extensions angle bracket Java section, highlighting the option Java angle bracket Server: Launch Mode with that option changed to Standard](/docs-tap/images/vscode-install4.png)

    When the JDK and Language Support for Java are configured correctly, you see that the integrated
    development environment creates a directory target where the code is compiled.

## <a id="configure"></a> Configure

To configure VMware Tanzu Developer Tools for VS Code:

1. Ensure that you are targeting the correct cluster. For more informatiom, see the
[Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/configure-access-multiple-clusters/).

1. Go to **Code** > **Preferences** > **Settings** > **Extensions** > **Tanzu Developer Tools** and
set the following:

    - **Confirm Delete**: This controls whether the extension asks for confirmation when deleting a
    workload.
    - **Enable Live Hover**: For more information, see
    [Integrating Live Hover by using Spring Boot Tools](/docs-tap/vscode-extension/live-hover.hbs.md).
    Reload VS Code for this change to take effect.
    - **Source Image**: (Required) The registry location for publishing local source code. For example,
    `registry.io/yourapp-source`. This must include both a registry and a project name.
    - **Local Path**: (Optional) The path on the local file system to a directory of source code to
    build. This is the current directory by default.
    - **Namespace**: (Optional) This is the namespace that workloads are deployed into.
    The namespace set in `kubeconfig` is the default.

## <a id="uninstall"></a> Uninstall

To uninstall VMware Tanzu Developer Tools for VS Code:

1. Go to **Code** > **Preferences** > **Settings** > **Extensions**.
1. Right-click the extension and select **Uninstall**.

## <a id="next-steps"></a> Next steps

Proceed to [Getting started with Tanzu Developer Tools for Visual Studio Code](/docs-tap/vscode-extension/getting-started.hbs.md).

Commit message:

Update source-image requirements
- use Local Source Proxy as preferred method
- remove source image from tiltfiles
- set source image as optional parameter

partials/vscode-extension/_install.hbs.md, after:

This topic tells you how to install VMware Tanzu Developer Tools for Visual Studio Code (VS Code).

## <a id="prereqs"></a> Prerequisites

Before installing the extension, you must have:

- [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl)
- [Tilt](https://docs.tilt.dev/install.html) v0.30.12 or later
- [Tanzu CLI and plug-ins](/docs-tap/install-tanzu-cli.hbs.md#cli-and-plugin)
- [A cluster with the Tanzu Application Platform Full profile or Iterate profile](/docs-tap/install-online/profile.hbs.md)

If you are an app developer, someone else in your organization might have already set up the
Tanzu Application Platform environment.

Docker Desktop and local Kubernetes are not prerequisites for using Tanzu Developer Tools for VS Code.

## <a id="install"></a> Install

To install the extension:

1. Sign in to VMware Tanzu Network and [download Tanzu Developer Tools for Visual Studio Code](https://network.tanzu.vmware.com/products/tanzu-application-platform).
2. Open VS Code.
3. Press cmd+shift+P to open the Command Palette and run `Extensions: Install from VSIX...`.
4. Select the extension file **tanzu-vscode-extension.vsix**.

    ![Command palette open showing text Extensions: INSTALL FROM VSIX...](/docs-tap/images/vscode-install1v2.png)

5. If you do not have the following extensions, and they do not automatically install, install them
from VS Code Marketplace:

    - [Debugger for Java](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vscjava.vscode-java-debug)
    - [Language Support for Java(™) by Red Hat](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.java)
    - [YAML](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.vscode-yaml)

1. Ensure Language Support for Java is running in
[Standard Mode](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/java/java-project#_lightweight-mode).
You can configure it in the **Settings** menu by going to **Code** > **Preferences** > **Settings**
under **Java > Server: Launch Mode**.

    ![The VS Code settings open to the Extensions angle bracket Java section, highlighting the option Java angle bracket Server: Launch Mode with that option changed to Standard](/docs-tap/images/vscode-install4.png)

    When the JDK and Language Support for Java are configured correctly, you see that the integrated
    development environment creates a directory target where the code is compiled.

## <a id="configure"></a> Configure

To configure VMware Tanzu Developer Tools for VS Code:

1. Ensure that you are targeting the correct cluster. For more informatiom, see the
[Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/configure-access-multiple-clusters/).

1. Go to **Code** > **Preferences** > **Settings** > **Extensions** > **Tanzu Developer Tools** and
set the following:

    - **Confirm Delete**: This controls whether the extension asks for confirmation when deleting a
    workload.
    - **Enable Live Hover**: For more information, see
    [Integrating Live Hover by using Spring Boot Tools](/docs-tap/vscode-extension/live-hover.hbs.md).
    Reload VS Code for this change to take effect.
    - **Source Image**: (Optional) The registry location for publishing local source code. For example,
    `registry.io/yourapp-source`. This must include both a registry and a project name. Optional when Local Source Proxy is configured.
    - **Local Path**: (Optional) The path on the local file system to a directory of source code to
    build. This is the current directory by default.
    - **Namespace**: (Optional) This is the namespace that workloads are deployed into.
    The namespace set in `kubeconfig` is the default.

## <a id="uninstall"></a> Uninstall

To uninstall VMware Tanzu Developer Tools for VS Code:

1. Go to **Code** > **Preferences** > **Settings** > **Extensions**.
1. Right-click the extension and select **Uninstall**.

## <a id="next-steps"></a> Next steps

Proceed to [Getting started with Tanzu Developer Tools for Visual Studio Code](/docs-tap/vscode-extension/getting-started.hbs.md).
